# WECG TPAC Nov 10, 2025


## Agenda

https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/wiki/TPAC-2025-Coordination#monday

(all times JST, UTC+9)

 * Welcome – 11:00 to 11:30
 * Working Group Charter – 11:30 to 12:30
 * (Lunch – 12:30 to 13:45)
 * WPT Testing Status – 13:45 to 14:15
 * User Attention – 14:15 to 15:00
 * (Break – 15:00 to 15:30)
 * Extension Origin – 15:30 to 16:00
 * Bug Triage – 16:00 to 16:45


## Attendees

 * Rob Wu (Mozilla)
 * Simeon Vincent (Mozilla)
 * Kiara Rose (Apple)
 * Devlin Cronin (Google Chrome)
 * Tomislav Jovanovic (Mozilla)
 * Carlos Jeurissen (Independent)
 * Oliver Dunk (Google Chrome)
 * Felipe Erias (Igalia)
 * Kanaru Sato (...)
 * Ehsan Toreini (Samsung)
 * Vadim Makeev (MDN @ Mozilla)
 * Christian Brand (1Password)
 * Rene Leveille (1Password)
 * Mike (sideshowbarker) (W3C)
 * Andrew Dekker (Meta)
 * Ricky Mondello (Apple)
 * Takagi (KDDI)
 * Timothy Hatcher (Apple)
 * Mukul Purohit (Microsoft)
 * Casey Garland (Capital One)
 * George Henderson (Capital One)
 * Binh Trong Hoang (Huawei)
 * Samuel Maddock (Salesforce)
 * Sarven Capadisli (TAG)


## Notes


### Welcome

11:00-11:30
Introductions, goals, and overview of the week's objectives.

 * [simeon] Intro; overview of today's agenda.
 * [round of intros]
 * [simeon] Objectives: Creation of WG; WPT,


### Working Group Charter

11:15 - 12:30
Review W3C TAG and other Working Group feedback on the draft WEWG charter, align on next steps to finalize and advance it toward approval.

 * [oliver] Charter draft: https://w3c.github.io/charter-drafts/2025/webextensions-wg.html
 * [oliver] W3C discussion: https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/146
 * [simeon] The linked discussion is on the creation of the WG. PLH created initial WG charter based on our draft.
 * [simeon] WIP update based on feedback: https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/711
 * Packaging format https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/711#discussion_r2434955131
   * [simeon] Browsers have different packaging formats and requirements, is why we declared it out of scope. (also at https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/711#discussion_r2479872179)
   * [rob] TAG feedback was at https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2025%2Ftelcons%2F10-20-minutes.md#design-reviews1138-wgwebextensions-web-extensions-working-group-github---csarven-matatk-toreini-christianliebel-1
   * [mike] Simeon's reply is a satisfactory answer to the question from TAG.
   * [simeon] How difficult is it to revise the charter to add something like this in the future?
   * [mike] Recommend against; would have to recharter, and require (legal) review from companies joining the WG. Everyone leaves and re-joins.
   * [simeon] Allowing space for it seems preferable than not.
   * [tomislav] But would also require legal scrutiny.
   * [devlin] Seems unlikely that we would change this soon.
   * [mike] Charter is for 2 years, I tried 3, but it is 2. What do you expect to achieve in 2 years?
   * [devlin] We are not going to change this in two years.
   * [simeon] In a previous CG meeting we talked about a ZIP archive as a minimal spec.
   * [timothy] At Apple we discussed this, and it is unlikely for us to change the packaging format.
   * [mike] Recommend optimizing to reduce friction. You'd want to tightly specify the work, what you can realistically collaborate on.
   * [rob] We have already specified the packaging format in testing, but that is part of another group (WebDriver BiDi).
 * “Independent implementations must be developed by separate parties” ([comment link](https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/711#discussion_r2435038960))
   * [simeon] Interpretation of “Independent implementations”? Is it referring to clean room? In practice implementers can and do already look at each other's sources.
   * [mike] Not sure what it is referring to. It is not a requirement of the W3C process. You can voluntarily constrain yourself, but I would not recommend including this.
   * [rob] Is this TAG feedback or csarven's personal opinion?
   * [mike] I don't know, but it does not matter - you can say no. It is not part of the charter template, other groups do not have it. You don't have to do this. You have discretion here.
   * [simeon] Original text came from the template, that is also why I was confused.
   * [oliver] Clarify discretion?
   * [mike] Multiple groups (TAG, AC, etc) providing feedback, and have ability to formally object instead of signing off. I would be responsible for getting these resolved (with your help)
   * [oliver] Can TAG have formal objections to a charter?
   * [mike] Has not happened yet.
 * Relevance of FedCM inclusion in the charter
   * https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/711#discussion_r2429866319
   * [simeon] Rob's comment about excluding FedCM from the charter.
   * [mike] There is a “Digital Credentials” part in scope of that group that might be more relevant. Is that potentially actionable?
   * [simeon] The way that password manager extensions integrate is that they use content scripts to inject code in the page to replace existing APIs or modify UI to offer capabilities.
   * [simeon] There are 1Password folks in this room, can you share your experiences? Do you shim these APIs?
   * [rene] We do shim the credential management API so that we can provide passkeys authentication. This allows us to provide consistent UI across platforms.
   * [simeon] Do you need dedicated APIs to support shimming, e.g. for better interoperability between extensions?
   * [rene] This topic has been discussed multiple times; There is a desire to integrate in autofill, which can be useful when there are multiple password manager APIs.
   * [simeon] At previous meetings we also discussed challenges with providing browser UI.
   * [rene] Some browsers allow us to request that we hide the browser ui
   * [rob] Does this fall under the scope of any groups?
   * [tomislav] Could be an API exposed to extensions.
   * [rob] Does that require collaboration with other groups? We could get feedback, but what we would do if anything doesn't change the web facing API.
   * [mike] Apple shipped a Passwords extension. Is that relevant?
   * [ricky] We have an extension for other browsers. No opinion on this.
   * [oliver] From previous discussion with Googlers on other (non-extensions) teams, there wasn't interest in extension APIs.
   * [christian] The current state of the world isn't desirable, but it works well enough. Would like to see improvement in the APIs here.
   * [oliver] I have seen interest from password managers. Question though is what we can do.
   * [timothy] I will defer to ricky; but from Apple's perspective, the preference is for Password autofill integration to happen at the system level because passwords can be filled in applications other than the browser.
   * [carlos] This is not unique to passwords, this also happens in other areas like translating a page. In addition, extensions may compete with each other in terms of being the password manager, ad blocker, or deal with proxies.
   * [ricky] Agree with Tim's comments on password managers integrating at system level. That said, I agree that competing on UI is something that should be within the charter.
   * [tomislav] I understand the Apple position, but Apple does not make a cross-platform browser. Other implementations have an interest in other platforms too. OTOH, the charter is not describing deliverables, but what we want/may discuss in the next 2 years. If there is enough interest from participants, it's worth including.
   *
   * [mike] There is boilerplate in the charter to list relevant groups; It is a given that we have to collaborate with other groups, you do not necessarily have to explicitly enumerate every possible group.
   * [devlin] I don't think that we necessarily need to include FedCM. Extensions interface with everything of the web platform, and we would have to list all groups.
   *
   * [rene] What is the purpose of the group? Specifying specific APIs, or limited to interaction with web pages?
   * [devlin] Both and more. Extension APIs, how extensions interact with other web platform concepts.
   * [rene] Does the charter have to specify specific APIs (e.g. navigator.credentials)?
   * [devlin] More general. Extensions hook in so many things, and it is useful to list.
   * [rob] We recently discussed the referrer header. That's something that would ideally be written down in a spec.
   * [devlin] Yes. Also fetch/XHR because these can bypass origin restrictions.
   * [simeon] Circling back to the original topic here; I don't think that we would need to list every potential group. I'll resolve the comment.
 * Room for browsers to implement beyond what is specified, non-alignment.
   * https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/711#discussion_r2436528093
   * [rob] Devlin also wrote a comment we haven't discussed yet.
     * Quote from our WECG charter: "We recognize that browser vendors need to provide functionality that is specific to their browser and also need the ability to experiment with new features. Our process embraces this and seeks to provide mechanisms for specifying inconsistencies and working towards eventual unification where appropriate. Given this, we expect browser vendors to offer APIs and capabilities beyond what's specified."
   * [simeon] How do we say “intentionally not going to align with everything”
   * [devlin] Browsers provide a variety of capabilities that are used to differentiate. Those capabilities may be exposed via extensions APIs. … Don't want to say that Firefox can't implement a feature because Chrome doesn't want it. Don't have a great example of a capability that only one currently implements. There are features that we're exploring internally, separately. For example, reading lists and split views. Multiple browsers are considering, but may well take different approaches. Eventual alignment is possible.
   * [mike] Understand the desire for non-interoperability. Could add a link from the charter to the other explanatory part.
   * [devlin] The quote above from the WECG, would like to include that in the WEWG charter.
   * [timothy] Do we expect to have many things that are experimental landing in the working group? Doing that in the community group makes sense.
   * [devlin] Any spec we produce should be aligned between browser. But something we don't specify is literally everything that falls under the browser namespace, browsers may add to the browser namespace that is not specified.
   * [mike] The CG can have a wider community, doesn't need to sign up with patent policy etc. The purpose of the WG is to publish something stable, once it reaches some level of maturity.
   * [devlin] I expect the majority of the discussions to continue in the CG. The spec published by the WG would not exhaustively list the full capabilities of extensions; implementing more would not fail a browser to be spec-compliant.
   * [mike] One you write something down, including examples would be useful.
   * [simeon] `system.*` APIs.
   * [timothy] tabGroups API.
   * [rob] Let's stop diving deeper there, and proceed to formulating an action item. Do we need a separate doc?
   * [devlin] I suggest starting with including the text in the charter.
   * [simeon] Can we make minor modifications to the charter?
   * [mike] Yes, updating links is fine. Just can't make substantive modifications.
   * **Action Item**: Simeon to copy the language from the CG charter and get feedback from there. We can break this out into a separate document if/when necessary.
 * [carlos] PR does not mention anything about browser UI. Would it make sense to mention any of that?
   * [carlos] https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/pull/711/files#r2449117750
   * [devlin] I'd be supportive of referencing that extensions can leverage or extend browser UI.
 * [rob] If we can link out to another document and the other document can change the meaning of what we're chartered to do, how does that work?
   * [devlin] Don't abuse it ;)
   * [mike] Provides flexibility. People that are interested in participating will get ramped up and understand the space.
   * [devlin] I expect we'd get pushback if we tried to put the scope in a separate document. Having a doc that explains why the spec is non-exhaustive.
   * [mike] Like a FAQ. Don't want to answer the same question a hundred times from different people.
 * [rob] Next steps?
   * [devlin] Would be nice to resolve the feedback threads (in Github), update the charter and invite csarven (TAG) here at TPAC to discuss the next steps.
   * Action Item: Simeon to resolve comment threads, in addition to adding blurb from CG about non-spec'd APIs
   * [simeon] Once we have the revision, what are the next steps in the W3?
   * [mike] Next step is to formally send it out to the advisory committee (AC). Other companies can see it. Patent disclosures can happen upon joining groups, royalty-free licensing is needed to publish specs that may infringe on specific patents. Related, disclosure obligations: even if not part of a WG, if a company is aware of relevant patents, companies have an obligation to mention relevant parts. Sending to the AC is an opportunity to get this review and feedback.
   * [mike] A problem might arise if we don't get enough responses from companies. E.g. if there are 400 companies, and not 40 (10%) responses.
   * [rob] Is it a problem to create the WG? For whom is it a problem?
   * [mike] Problem for me and W3C. I would have to recommend advancing the group despite not meeting the threshold. Strongly recommend you make sure your own organizations respond to the AC announcement. Filing in the form can be completed in 5 minutes.
   * [rob] Does that undermine the legitimacy of the group or block its formation?
   * [mike] Responses are a strong signal that we have sufficient participation from members that think we should actually be spending time and energy on a given area of work.
   * [rob] Sounds like next steps are submitting it to the AC. Anything else?
   * [mike] There are some other minor details, but they're mostly housekeeping. Once you've got the charter in a state you're happy with, there's not much else to do for a while.

(Lunch 12:30 - 13:45)


### Web Platform Tests Status

13:45 - 14:15
Review the current state of Web Platform Tests for extensions. Discuss next steps for expanding test coverage and whether AI tools could help convert existing tests into WPT format.

 * [simeon] Start with review. Where are we with WPT integration?
 * [kiara] Landed. We have 1 test. Should definitely get more coverage.
 * [rob] As in everything is running in Safari/WebKit?
 * [timothy] Not sure how we integrate with the WPT test suite. Safari Tech Preview (STP) integration should work. Don't know if that's running on wpt.fyi today.
 * [rob] But you are able to run them locally during development.
 * [kiara] Should be testable against Safari as well as STP.
 * [tomislav] Also have all the code landed. Haven't confirmed whether they run outside our infrastructure (on wpt.fyi). That's my next task. May need to expose more detailed results. Also want to write several more tests of the test framework to confirm/demonstrate how tests work. Will be useful for Google when they are ready to begin implementation.
 * [rob] Is the syncing of tests already set up?
 * [tomislav] Yes.
 * [rob] If someone were to write the tests manually, are they able to run them?
 * [tomislav] Yes. Should be runnable using standard WPT infrastructure.
 * [kiara] tests results are being reported on wpt.fyi : https://wpt.fyi/results/web-extensions?label=experimental&label=master&aligned
 * [tomislav] The tests also run on our infrastructure. If you add a test, the bot will pick up the change and sync it with WPT. Carlos has created a patch that adds runtime.getVersion() support, which would be a good candidate for the WPT test structure.
 * [timothy] What tests got merged?
 * [tomislav] runtime.getURL. Current tests: correct cases for relative paths and normalization, other test is various error cases, getURL with expected passing casses.
 * [carlos] We have an existing issue with some of the getURL() cases and inconsistencies https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/281
 * [rob] The tests you mention are in WPT. Chrome?
 * [devlin] Unfortunately Patrick would know better than I would. We haven't yet gotten tests running as part of our test suites.
 * [rob] Any chance that this could be worked on next year?
 * [devlin] Next year, yes.
 * [timothy] Browser namespace just landed in Canary, right?
 * [devlin] Work is still ongoing. Current blocker is that the polyfill uses browser to detect whether or not it's running in Chrome.
 * [oliver] For browser namespace and messaging changes, that's in Canary now.
 * [rob] Polyfill isn't necessarily detecting Chrome, but it is detecting the absence of the `browser` namespace and providing a compatible implementation.
 * [devlin] We had the browser namespace, but it didn't work as expected. We just landed the fix for that in the last couple weeks.
 * [tomislav] Good work, congrats.
 * [mike] I need to run to the WPT meeting. If you're encountering issues with getting tests merged, I can help approve. If you need review, I can't help – the expectation is that you'll be providing reviewers.
 * [tomislav] In general my suggested process is that one of the browsers writes the test, another reviews and approves, and we can land with that. After we have alignment in our group, we can ask for merges from the WPT folks. We are mostly autonomous within our directory. We can ask for guidance on general patterns, etc.
 * [rob] Where do we find items to review? Is there a label? Does it get added automatically? There is a “web-extensions” label at https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3Aweb-extensions
 * [tomislav] That's a process issue we need to figure out.
 * [timothy] So adding tests should be relatively easy, not like the months-long review process we had for the initial changes.
 * [tomislav] Correct. … It can land in one of our trees and it will get picked up automatically. That doesn't have a review from a second browser, so we may need to figure that out.
 * [rob] When we review tests, unless we see something really bad we should just merge it and follow up with other browsers to align if needed.
 * [kiara] In terms of specs, should we have tests created in parallel with specs?
 * [tomislav] If we are specifying something with at least two different implementations, should we require a WPT test?
 * [oliver] I don't think anyone would disagree with that, but we should have some common sense. If it's unclear what a test would look like, we shouldn't block on that.
 * [tomislav] If it's not clear what the tests should look like, the spec is unclear.
 * [rob] SHOULD rather than MUST. Agreed?
 * [devlin] (thumbs up) but with the caveat that we do not run them right now.
 * [rob] Action items or next steps?
 * [kiara] What tests are next? Identifying priorities.
 * [timothy] More runtime tests.
 * [devlin] Messaging APIs would be a fun one to have cross-browser tests for. I imagine we're not fully aligned there.
 * [rob] Content script matching and execution? Sandbox matching, all URLs, etc.


### User Attention

14:15 - 15:00
Discuss ways for extensions to communicate important information to users in a discoverable and non-intrusive manner. See [issue 892](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/892) for background.

 * [timothy] Recently came up; request from extensions to announce information in the browser.
 * [carlos] Something useful for extension devs would be to have a way to present information to the user without interrupting their current activity.
 * [devlin] What would that look like?
 * [carlos] Similar to existing capabilities like idle callbacks.
 * [devlin] I think every browser would likely have a different way of defining and exposing that.
 * [simeon] declarativeContent badging was discussed before; maybe a way for DevTools to overlay over the page.
 * [rob] Is that related?
 * [simeon] Capability could be used for this.
 * [rob] Not sure that's the right solution. Notifying users isn't the same as showing content on the page. For example, showing patch notes or new capabilities – doesn't make sense to show what's new in web content.
 * [timothy] Sounds like a soft notification.
 * [rob] One way to implement this would be a feed. Key is passing information to the browser and allowing the browser to decide where and when to show it.
 * [simeon] That sounds like it works for passive updates, but doesn't address the ended for time sensitive issues
 * [rob] For that you can use desktop notifications or open a new tab.
 * [devlin] Can open an action popup.
 * [george] Badging a browser action or opening the popup. Are those insufficient?
 * [devlin] Right now very subtle with the browser action, very invasive with the popup. The request here is for something in between. I'd put the notifications API as that in between.
 * [rob] I think that's a bit noisy
 * [devlin] Definitely more noisy than a new tab.
 * [rob] What do you think about the model I described where you pass data into a feed, mainly to avoid bugging uninterested users (not pop up/notify/interrupt when users are not interested).
 * [devlin] Should be a setting in the extension. Not necessarily something that can be built into the platform.
 * [timothy] Worry that will be a dumping ground
 * [george] Could a browser surface updates
 * [devlin] On Chrome, we want updates to be seamless. That's both the browser and extensions running in them. Updates shouldn't be disruptive.
 * [devlin] Don't know how many more patterns we'd want to introduce here. We have a set of options that range from not too noisy to too noisy. There are requests for new ways to surface things, like adding content to the new tab page, but we'd want to evaluate those on an individual basis.
 * [rob] Timothy, did you have any thoughts of concrete UI surfaces or examples of how this feature request could be implemented?
 * [timothy] No, unless you are referring to showing something in a square on the new tab page.
 * [christian] Is this intended to passively show information to the user about activity while browsing. Some of the use cases sound like they'd be better for showing extra information to the user. For example, a password manager showing information about HTTP vs HTTPS. Want to proactively communicate in an accessible way. My read of the issue is that would be in scope.
 * [timothy] I can see that too. E.g. page menu in Safari, where Translate etc., live.
 * [christian] Something natural for the user.
 * [rob] Isn't the extension action button already the UI for that use case?
 * [george] Yes, for indications.
 * [christian] If extensions make up something, e.g. dot indicator colors, the meaning differs across extensions. Some may use it for release notes, others for something else.
 * [rob] If you want the browser to standardize this, that would be yet another UI part with a pre-defined meaning, which competes with extension-defined UI.
 * [george] This should be opt in because any time you call attention to an extension, that's an opportunity for the user to uninstall it.
 * [christian] I feel like the dot has lost relevance. As an extension developer, I'd like a way to provide more context, a message, about what's happening and why. The dot stuff today is mostly a call to action. It would be great to have a way to show an informative message, not a call to action.
 * [rob] Even if you're a well behaved extension developer and you use it for the more narrow purpose, others will use this as yet another way to get users to take action.
 * [timothy] Also my concern here. I worry about this becoming a dumping ground or a spam situation where we end up removing it in a year because it is so abused.
 * [christian] Wonder if there's a way to tie this into authentic engagement from a user… the user somehow tells the browser they'd like to see updates.
 * [timothy] Could also be a situation where the browser makes a decision about whether or not to show it based on its internal heuristics. As long as this is acceptable to extensions. An extension may think everything it presents should be shown to the user.
 * [christian] I know there are places where this is the state of the world - where messages only appear if the planets align. The …&lt;power cut>
 * [devlin] This boils down to whether we want to introduce new UI surfaces. A different API for just this kind of messaging may not make sense.
 * [rob] Rather than a method that does everything, perhaps we can offer methods to offer heuristics that extensions cannot easily figure out themselves?
 * [devlin] I think that's what Carlos was getting at with the idea of detecting when the user isn't busy.
 * [rob] Could offer more information to extensions in order to enable experimentation in extensions. Extension cannot easily tell if the extension updated because the browser automatically did it, because the user chose to do so, etc. On the other hand, I recognize that this is something less relevant to Chrome, because Chrome auto-updates everything, whereas Firefox allows users to control when to update manually.
 * [devlin] Those signals don't necessarily answer the question of whether or not its a good time to interrupt the user. If I've been playing lofi beats on YouTube for an hour, that might be a good time despite having video playing.
 * [george] I feel like there's enough there to explore.
 * [rob] I think we can close this issue as an action item.
 * [devlin] Agree, I think we can say we understand the use cases and are interested in exploring suggestions on a case by case basis.
   * **Action Item**: Devlin to close issue
   * [Done](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/892#issuecomment-3509545887)
 * [george] We should talk about declarative badging, but there might not be enough time to cover it.
 * [devlin] Might be, not much has changed. Browsers are generally supportive but no one has had time to explore approaches or write up a proposal.


### Extension Origin

15:30 - 16:00
Discuss how to define a stable and predictable origin for extensions in cases where one is required, and related privacy or security considerations such as missing Referer headers in extension iframes.
See [issue 238](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/238#issuecomment-3470364772) and [issue 896](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/896) for background.

 * [rob] The latest motivation for this was the fact that the Referer header is omitted, which can be a signal that the request is coming from an extension. Another use case: authentication. Chrome includes the extension origin based on the extension ID. We may be able to solve this generally.
 * [carlos] Note that DNR is not an ideal solution as the extension would have to request host access. Referrer policy on iframes may help
 * [rob] Referer could be useful, but only if they can be related to the extension ID (That is not the case in Firefox and Safari).
 * [casey] Would we be able to trust that requests with that ID are only coming from our extension?
 * [tomislav] If its coming from the browser, yes.
 * [oliver] But another extension could have a DNR rule to set the header.
 * [tomislav] Right.
 * [rob] If we were to agree on a standard extension origin format, we could align on and agree that other origins wouldn't be able to spoof that header.
 * [george] How does Firefox handle origins?
 * [rob] Currently the origin is sometimes stripped and sometimes included. It changed a couple of times in specific scenarios to repair backwards compatibility.
 * [george] Should we consider how this plays into web_accessible_resources as well?
 * [simeon] Yes.
 * [tomislav] Also relevant for identity API. We generate a fake origin for the extension to use.
 * [rob] A potential solution is that extensions could expose an origin based on the extension's internal concept of the extension ID and this would require an opt-in from the extension.
 * [devlin] Need to be careful with that. Origin header is only omitted on the web if the request is from the same origin.
 * [rob] The referrer is already empty. Proposing to expose a meaningful origin if extension opts in.
 * [oliver] How is this related to the frame embedding and webauthn cases?
 * [rob] Both (referrer and webauthn origin) specify where the request came from. I'm proposing that we define a method of having a fixed origin that's static and common to all users. Since this kind of static value can be a privacy concern, it would need to be an opt in.
 * [oliver] Couldn't we say that the static ID is used in certain cases and the dynamic ID is used in others. Couldn't you use the `browser_specific_settings.gecko.id` value in those requests?
 * [rob] Could, but a dynamic ID would not allow the backend to identify the extension.
 * [rene] Currently we have to use workarounds to have consistent behavior across browsers. For the origin itself, whether its static or dynamic, doesn't matter for us server side. Does matter for RPID in webauthn. The RPID has to match the origin of the request.
 * [rob] Currently in FF and Safari, origins are randomized, so they don't have any bearing on the registerable domain. If we had a static thing that we could have on an allow list, that would be useful. What's the context for RPID?
 * [rene] RPID was mentioned in reference to webauthn use cases. A static identifier for those APIs.
 * [rob] Could use the extension ID. Given this referrer issue, we might want to consider a more generic solution. You mentioned that in webauthn there are 2 use cases?
 * [rene] In a webauthn request, it's bound to the origin. As a relying party, you can decide if the key that comes out of that request is bound to that specific FQDN or you can optionally define the relying party ID you'd like to use. Allows you to use the same value across all your websites or subdomains. In the extension case, since this isn't coming from a website, you can still do a webauthn request to the system, but since the origin is coming from an extension ID, setting an RPID to a value that would be consistent with the website fails, because the origin doesn't match.
 * [rob] There's currently a bug in Firefox where, if the extension has host permissions for an origin, it can also make these requests. I was thinking we could create an origin or fake one in a way that's tied to the extension ID.
 * [carlos] What about doing something like this?
   constant: `moz-extension://gecko_id_my-extension@mydomain.com`
   Unspecified: moz-extension://gecko_id
 * [rob] Problem with this is that it doesn't match the definition of an origin.
 * [rene] Could reverse gecko_id and mydomain.
 * [carlos] Still contains invalid characters.
 * [rob] If we were to do something like this in FF, we'd have to change how data is stored in extensions. If we want to change the origin to something else, we'd have to migrate all databases that are associated as they're keyed by origin.
 * [tomislav] We'd also need to separately implement randomization of web exposed addresses.
 * [carlos] Does the page itself need to match the origin?
 * [rob] To solve the youtube issue, we could unconditionally send something that looks like an origin.
 * [oliver] Devlin, is there value in sanitizing the characters we use in an extension origin?
 * [devlin] On the Chrome side it would be difficult to change what we have as an implementation, so I'd be biased against that. If we introduced a separate concept, I'd be more receptive.
 * [oliver] Is it worth discussing what the origin looks like or should we just say it's a valid web origin?
 * [devlin] Just a web origin.
 * [oliver] Are we comfortable saying extension origins can be fixed?
 * [rob] Yes, with the condition that it should be possible to make it such that a website cannot detect the presence of the extension. Any use of web_accessible_resources currently exposes the presence of the extension.
 * [tomislav] Right, in Chrome's MV3 implementation they have an opt out.
 * [rob] That does not solve it generally for extensions that want to expose something on potentially any website, but is a task for later. Right now I'd like to specify a standard origin derived from an extension identifier, with the principle that the origin cannot easily leak to websites.
 * [timothy] That's essentially our stance as well. We randomize the host name and take steps to prevent a site from detecting an extension. If you're accessing href attributes in DOM, we'll mask the URL if you're accessing it from the main world. We also mask it from error stacks. CSP reports also have masked urls.
 * [tomislav] Would you be open to aligning on fixed urls?
 * [timothy] Hard to say. If fixed origin could get out in some way and be used to detect the presence of the extension, that would be a concern.
 * [rob] Currently extensions have to opt into `use_dynamic_url` in WAR, but that means that extensions that don't set it expose users to fingerprinting risks. I'm suggesting we change the default.
 * [devlin] Would be hesitant to change the default.
 * [oliver] We saw a lot of breakage when we enabled this feature, as a lot of extensions had opted in but didn't actually support dynamic urls.
 * [oliver] This seems like a reasonable place where browsers could choose different defaults.
 * [rob] There's currently no direct relationship between extension ID and origin, which is advantageous for FF and Safari. Does this sound reasonable, Timothy?
 * [timothy] Would need to see more details and think through it. Would love to see a proposal.
 * [rob] Got it, I think the action item is for me to create a proposal.
 * **Action Item**: Rob to create proposal for extension origin


### Bug Triage

16:15 - 16:45
Review open GitHub issues and pull requests.

 * [Issue 316](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/316): `tabs.getCurrent()` returns undefined when being called from the popup
   * [carlos] Currently misalignment between Chrome and Safari. Safari can't change behavior for backwards compatibility reasons. How should we handle issues like this where there's disagreement but alignment is far out?
   * [simeon] In the past we've used labels to flag items to resolve in the next manifest version bump, but then we have to keep the issue open. Might be best to create a new issue to collect items we'd like to address in the next manifest version bump, cross-link the issue, and close out the origin.
   * [carlos] I like that, I can create the issue.
 * [Issue 878](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/878): Proposal: `runtime.getVersion()` method
   * [carlos] Back and forth between Oliver and me. Firefox and Safari return the manifest value, whereas Chrome returns the parsed interpretation such as zeroes removed. Concerned about extensions bugs caused by this difference.
   * [oliver] The implementations are different, but I don't think that it is a meaningfully different way.
   * [timothy] Matching yourself is the critical part here.
   * [devlin] This returns the version as parsed by the browser. Use `runtime.getManifest()` if the objective is the manifest value, use `runtime.getVersion()` for browser's implementation.
   * [carlos] That removes one of the advantages of having a dedicated method.
   * [devlin] That was one of the advantages of this approach, it's not just a shorthand for `getManifest().version`, it does something different from that method and consistent with other parts of the API.
   * [rob] Although the behaviors are different, that is not a bug in the `getVersion()` API; the returned values match the browser's interpretation.
 * [Issue 897](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/897): Add support for `tabs.create({ incognito: true })`
   * [carlos] Google folks, what do you think?
   * [devlin] No. Can't mix incognito and on-the-record tabs in the same window.
   * [carlos] windows API isn't necessarily defined on mobile. There are already situations where window assumptions are not necessarily true.
   * [rob] Idea here is not to create an incognito tab in a normal window, it's to open an incognito tab in the appropriate place.
   * [tomislav] Seems too much to overload.
   * [devlin] Agree, every magical. We use the current window if the window isn't specified. This complicates that logic.
   * [timothy] I don't see an issue with it; could search for window and create one if needed, but we already know that, switch over to the right window and create a tab.
   * [devlin] That's specific to Safari. We don't have that pairing behavior.
   * [tomislav] Right, which incognito window do you go to?
   * [rob] What happens if you have an extension that doesn't use incognito split?
   * [devlin] If it's not split, `tabs.create()` goes to the most recently active window, whether that's incognito or on the record.
   * [rob] Isn't that magic too, by the same definition?
   * [devlin] More magic isn't the answer.
   * [rob] The current incognito-window tie is due to Chrome's tight coupling of incognito to window definition. We see that this model does not always apply, e.g. in Safari private/non-private in the same window, and in Firefox for Android there are no windows. Offering the ability to open a tab without knowing the window could be useful for scenarios where the dev does not care about windows, but just want to open a window.
   * [oliver] Can't you open an incognito window even if your extension isn't allowed to run in incognito?
   * [simeon] I see that as similar to clicking a link in another application. Devlin, can't we have a little magic as a treat?
   * [devlin] Would be less concerned if it didn't mean having to change the documentation around omitting the ID to `tabs.create()` docs.
   * [rob] Could be read as having the new tab match the current incognito state.
   * [oliver] I think the documentation update would be fairly small. Doesn't feel like it's to the point where it would be overwhelming.
   * [devlin] If you're using windowId, it only introduces the possibility of conflicts.
   * [rob] Does it help to say windowId and incognito are mutually exclusive?
   * Rob: yes, Tomislav: yes, Devlin: no.
   * [devlin] I dislike that this introduces complexity and magic in an API that already has workarounds on platforms we support.
   * [tomislav] if you have windows.
   * [rob] It's easier to add this behavior to the tabs API than to support the whole windows API on Android. Can we update the labels?
   * [devlin] I'm opposed, but I'm hesitant to say Chrome is.
   * [oliver] Thinking more about it, I'm less comfortable with the complexity. What does “incogito tab” mean?
   * [rob] “tab in an incognito context”
   * [oliver] I'm okay with neutral if Devlin is okay with it.
   * [devlin] I'm okay with neutral.
   * [oliver] Willing to accept patch?
   * [devlin] Yes.
   * **Resolution**: Chrome neutral on `tabs.create({ incognito: true })` (Firefox and Safari were already supportive)
 * [Issue 903](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/903): Proposal: `browser.action.associatedTabId`
   * [carlos] This was briefly discussed in TPAC Seville. Active tab is not necessarily associated with the current tab. I believe in Spain we saw that Firefox allows users to switch the active tab while the action popup is open.
   * [oliver] Could we do something with the getContext API? Maybe something like querying currentContext: true?
   * [timothy] Sounds a bit convoluted.
   * [devlin] Does not help, because the context would be the popup.
   * [oliver] would be a new property like associatedTabId.
   * [devlin] Might be relevant for sidepanels?
   * [rob] Can we use the magic tab ID for the current popup? (examples of prior art: TAB_ID_NONE, WINDOW_ID_CURRENT)
   * [devlin] So it's a supplement to querying for the current tab ID?
   * [rob] Yes.
   * [timothy] Devlin, what do you think of more magic?
   * [devlin] I like that this doesn't introduce a new API and is expandable to other situations. It is also not magic behavior, but a fixed constant. Carlos, one of the challenges with associatedTabId is that we don't have too many situations where a property only exists in certain contexts.
   * [carlos] I'm also okay with the magic values.
   * [oliver] I like things you can easily discover by looking through the TOC of the API docs. Arguably you could also do this with a magic property.
   * [carlos] It's also limited by feature set. You don't know the actual value. But I guess you could call `tabs.get()` with it to get the actual value.
   * [devlin] I prefer a function over a property to get this value.
   * [oliver] Difference with `location.href` getter?
   * [devlin] `window.location.href` tells you something about your current document. `window.top` or `window.parent` tell you something about your frame tree. The difference I see is that it tells you something about a different context. We also have to
   * [george] We'd also want to expose this to the sidepanel API.
   * [carlos] Firefox, what do you think about the magic constants for this?
   * [tomislav] +1
   * [rob] \*thumbs up\*
   * [_unknown_] `browser.tabs.TAB_ID_ASSOCIATED`?
   * [oliver] Everyone prefers constant to method?
   * [devlin] Mild preference.
