# WECG Meetings 2025, Public Notes, Aug 14

 * Chair: Kiara Rose
 * Scribes: Rob Wu

Time: 8 AM PDT = https://everytimezone.com/?t=689e7880,384
Call-in details: [WebExtensions CG, 14th August 2025](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/43e4fb8e-4736-445c-b051-2383ffeef033/20250814T080000/)
Zoom issues? Ping @zombie (Tomislav Jovanovic) in [chat](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#joining-chat)


## Agenda: [discussion in #858](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/858), [github issues](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues)

The meeting will start at 3 minutes after the hour.

See [issue 531](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/531) for an explanation of this agenda format.

 * **Announcements** (2 minutes)
   * [Issue 843](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/843): TPAC registration is open, we have ~12 hours of [meeting time scheduled](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/843#issuecomment-3140015582) across Monday and Thursday.
   * WG status
 * **Triage** (15 minutes)
   * [Issue 861](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/861): Enhancement request - Expand the Tab Groups API to include some info about Closed Tab Groups
   * [Issue 862](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/862): Proposal: Add sound to contentSettings
 * **Timely issues** (0 minutes)
   * N/A
 * **Check-in on existing issues** (20 minutes)
 * **Open discussion**
   * wpt/spec questions


## Attendees (sign yourself in)

 1. Rob Wu (Mozilla)
 2. David Johnson (Apple)
 3. Kiara Rose (Apple)
 4. Simeon Vincent (Mozilla)
 5. Timothy Hatcher (Apple)
 6. Nathan Gross (random observer)
 7. Jordan Spivack (Capital One)
 8. Casey Garland (Capital One)
 9. Mukul Purohit (Microsoft)


## Meeting notes

[Issue 843](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/843): TPAC registration is open, we have ~12 hours of [meeting time scheduled](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/843#issuecomment-3140015582) across Monday and Thursday.

 * [kiara] TPAC registration is open. Don't forget to sign up. We're meeting Tuesday and Thursday.

WG status

 * [simeon] plh from W3C has taken our WG charter and submitted it for review in the W3C.
   * https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/146
   * https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/w3c-ac-members/2025JulSep/0028.html
   * https://w3c.github.io/charter-drafts/2025/webextensions-wg.html
   * https://github.com/w3c/charter-drafts/blob/6db53d96914f6328a0fae3a917477933f0ca2a70/2025/webextensions-wg.html

[Issue 861](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/861): Enhancement request - Expand the Tab Groups API to include some info about Closed Tab Groups

 * [kiara] Safari does not have tabGroups API yet.
 * [simeon] I believe that this issue was filed in response to a query in Mozilla Discourse from a developer
 * [rob] Feels like this might fit in the sessions API, which is about closed tabs and windows.
 * [simeon] Chrome and Firefox has concepts related to tab groups that do not require an existing tab.
 * [rob] Makes sense to add this to the tabGroups API.
 * [kiara] We will need to revisit this when Googlers are present in this meeting.

[Issue 862](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/862): Proposal: Add sound to contentSettings

 * [kiara] We do not support the contentSettings API in Safari. Request seems reasonable.
 * [rob] We do not support the contentSettings API either.

wpt/spec questions

 * [simeon] How do browsers approach bringing in WPT for general web platform features?
 * [timothy] We periodically pull and merge specific sections.
 * [rob] We do something similar. We regularly upstream/downstream tests from WPT as appropriate.
 * [timothy] Should we wait for 2 implementations before writing a test?
 * [rob] If there's interest from another browser, it makes sense to have it be a wpt test. If there is an API that is explicitly rejected by the other browsers, then it makes less sense.
 * [timothy] Example with offscreen documents API. Not implemented by Safari nor Firefox.
 * [kiara] Would we specify it?
 * [rob] Problem with that API is currently it's only a Chrome feature that is explicitly described as an aid to bridge migration from MV2 to MV3, with reasons that can be added/removed by Google at any time. It's not a stable feature.
 * [timothy] Was also designed before we had a process in the WECG.
 * [rob] So far we did not (and still do not) have very rigid/strict requirements here; as long as there is some alignment.
 * [timothy] Sounds like that outlines a litmus test.
 * [david] Do we all agree that WPT is essentially standards track and other capabilities are out of scope?
 * [simeon] Sounds good to me.
 * [rob] Sounds like a good take for the start of the discussion (explicitly not a final decision).
 * [timothy] Sounds good to me.

[simeon] Spec progress

 * [kiara] Planning to start work on my contributions next week.
 * [simeon] Rob, do you know where Tom is on host permissions?
 * [rob] I don't know but I will ask him after the meeting.
 * [simeon] would it be helpful to create tracking issues for breaking down the spec work required?
 * [kiara] Open to the idea. I'm working on externally connectable, feel free to create an issue & assign it to me.
 * [rob] Also not opposed. Could be useful especially when we need to come back to something after a few weeks.

The next meeting will be on [Thursday, August 28th, 8 AM PDT (3 PM UTC)](https://everytimezone.com/?t=68b0ed80,384).
