# WECG Meetings 2026, Public Notes, Jan 15

 * Chair: Kiara Rose
 * Scribes: Rob Wu

Time: 8 AM PST = https://everytimezone.com/?t=69697f80,3c0
Call-in details: [WebExtensions CG, 15th January 2026](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/6a0eda89-558c-408d-b83d-5f03b8853c30/20260115T080000/)
Zoom issues? Ping @zombie (Tomislav Jovanovic) in [chat](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#joining-chat)


## Agenda: [discussion in #929](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/929), [github issues](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues)

The meeting will start at 3 minutes after the hour.

See [issue 531](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/531) for an explanation of this agenda format.

 * **Announcements **(2 minutes)
   * WECG mid-year meeting
 * **Triage **(15 minutes)
   * [PR 934](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/934): Add runtime.getDocumentId() proposal
   * [PR 932](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/932): Update runtime.onLoadedReason to match runtime.OnInstalledReason
   * [Issue 930](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/930): Align browsers on user activation for extension API: allow auxclick and contextmenu DOM events
   * [Issue 931](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/931): Opt-in Mechanism for Structured Clone Serialization and JSON Fallback Considerations
   * [Issue 935](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/935): Limits on lengths of strings passed to WebExtension APIs
 * **Timely issues** (10 minutes)
   * N/A
 * **Check-in on existing issues** (20 minutes)
   * [Issue 338](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/338): Inconsistency: runtime.onMessage Promise return
   * [Issue 422](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/422): Inconsistency: limits on browser.alarms.create()
   * [Issue 353](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/353#issuecomment-3701998708): Support onEnabled event when the extension from disabled state to enabled state
 * **Housekeeping** (5 minutes)
   * [carlos] Consider dropping Implemented:edge and renaming Implemented:chrome to Implemented: chromium
   * [carlos] Filenames for proposals: align on – vs \_
   * [simeon] Website - what would you like to see?


## Attendees (sign yourself in)

 1. Rob Wu (Mozilla)
 2. David Johnson (Apple)
 3. Kiara Rose (Apple)
 4. Dave Vandyke (DuckDuckGo)
 5. Benjamin Bruneau (1Password)
 6. Simeon Vincent (unaffiliated)
 7. Christian Rask (1Password)
 8. Patrick Kettner (Google Chrome)
 9. Anton Bershanskyi (independent)
 10. Timothy Hatcher (Apple)
 11. Mukul Purohit (Microsoft)
 12. Carlos Jeurissen (Jeurissen Apps)
 13. Casey Garland (Capital One)
 14. Jordan Spivack (Capital One)


## Meeting notes

WECG mid-year meeting

 * [kiara] We finalized dates for the mid-year meeting
 * [oliver] 7 - 9th of April 2026. No sign-up form yet, we will open issue, sign-on forms etc. Location is in London, perhaps Google's office at King's cross.

FYI on secure storage proposal from 1Password

 * [christian] FYI: 1Password resuming work on secure storage proposal discussed at TPAC.

[PR 934](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/934): Add runtime.getDocumentId() proposal

 * [carlos] During TPAC Timothy asked me to create a proposal; this is that.
 * [kiara] Initial pass looks good. I'll do a final pass soon.
 * [oliver] Looks good to me. I'll get someone from Google to review.
 * [rob] I'll do the review on behalf of Mozilla.
 * [oliver] Does Safari support Document ID?
 * [timothy] Yes, we've supported it for about a year.

[PR 932](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/932): Update runtime.onLoadedReason to match runtime.OnInstalledReason

 * [kiara] Related to issue 353 (onEnabled event)
 * [carlos] Accepted proposal's reasons do not match existing runtime.onInstalled event. Since the new event has not been implemented yet, think that it would make sense to change the proposal to align with the existing event.
 * [oliver] Updates look good to me; I have a question on the shared_module_update reason. It cannot be used by extensions, but parts of Chrome can trigger it. I don't think that we should specify the shared_module_reason since it is an internal Chrome detail not relevant to other browsers.
 * [kiara] I agree.
 * [rob] Let's drop it then, and then get the PR merged.
 * [carlos] Can extensions use shared modules?
 * [oliver] The Chrome Web Store rejects such uploads.

[Issue 353](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/353#issuecomment-3701998708): Support onEnabled event when the extension from disabled state to enabled state

 * [oliver] If extension is disabled, then updated, and then enabled. What do we fire?
 * [rob] Do you have a suggestion?
 * [oliver] Original reason is a missing lifecycle event, adding it makes sense. Curious about the use case for knowing that the extension was enabled vs onLoaded for whatever reason.
 * [carlos] Developer analytics?
 * [oliver] CWS has a dashboard to show the share of installations that are enabled/disabled.
 * [dave] (in chat) Possibly for the extension to differentiate if it was disabled (e.g. by search change prompt) and then enabled again by the user?
 * [dave] Not sure I'd actually use that, just brainstorming.
 * [rob] Could define a precedence order. For example, update > enable.
 * [oliver] At some point there was discussion of a reasons array – don't want to do that, gets a bit complicated.
 * [simeon] Could you share more?
 * [oliver] Feels too complicated. Prefer the simplicity of having a single value.
 * [timothy] Agreed, expect that it would push complexity on extension developers who don't know how to get it right. Supportive of one single reason over an array.
 * [rob] Anything else we need to cover in the PR ([PR 932](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/932))?
 * [carlos] We can specify the resolution of multiple reasons in the PR.

[Issue 930](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/930): Align browsers on user activation for extension API: allow auxclick and contextmenu DOM events

 * [rob] This is a question for the web platform, not for extensions. Extensions should not treat the events differently from the web platform. If browsers differ, then the web platform should seek alignment.
 * [oliver] MDN doc includes mousedown: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/User_activation

[Issue 931](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/931): Opt-in Mechanism for Structured Clone Serialization and JSON Fallback Considerations

 * [oliver] Opened by Justin on our team; structured cloning for message passing. There are cases where JSON serialization does things meaningfully different than structured cloning, e.g. when a toJSON value is present. Implementing just structured clone could be a breaking change.
 * [oliver] Suggestion is parameter in method, or an opt in via manifest field. Leaning towards manifest key.
 * [timothy] Agree that manifest keys is likely the right approach.
 * [simeon] Don't disagree that this is the right approach. Think that it is easier to control per message.
 * [rob] The right migration path is to remove the toJSON dependency across the extension, after which the serialization method does not matter. So that removes the need for a per-message override.
 * [timothy] An opt in also means that developers have to remember setting the option for the more sensible default.
 * [simeon] Could also have a manifest default and per-call override.
 * [dave]
 * [timothy] Backwards-compatibility consideration: would a manifest key cause a hard error in Chrome?
 * [patrick] We agreed to not do hard errors for unknown properties.
 * [oliver] Is there any reason for cross-browser tests (wpt) for this?
 * [rob] Structured cloning should be supported. If Chrome requires an opt in, the manifest could include that key. It also serves as coverage to show that Firefox can load the extension, even if it does not recognizes the key (and supports structured cloning by default).
 * [timothy] Any test that expects structured cloning would fail. We currently just do JSON serialization.
 * [rob] Do you intend to support structured cloning?
 * [timothy] I'd like to, but can't commit to support at the moment.
 * [oliver] Introducing the manifest key doesn't rule out the possibility of introducing a property in the future.
 * [rob] Extensions can always manually serialize JSON themselves using `JSON.stringify()`.
 * [timothy] Would Firefox support JSON serialization?
 * [rob] If there is a use case / demand for toJSON, we can consider supporting it.

[Issue 935](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/935): Limits on lengths of strings passed to WebExtension APIs

 * [kiara] Alarms API hangs in browsers if long strings are passed. May make sense to audit APIs and enforce limits if needed.
 * [anton] Chromium implements the API such that alarms are stored for every extension together. The browser serializes and saves all alarms together. This can lead to resource usage limitations in some cases. One way to fix this is to disallow names over a certain length. Started to collect histograms in Chrome on lengths, which can help with determining reasonable length limits in future discussions.
 * [rob] Seems reasonable to discuss string limits for specific APIs, especially for ID use cases. I expect there to be a lot of work ahead here, and welcome improvements. E.g. the contextMenus APIs takes strings in various places without validation specifically on the length. The declarativeNetRequest API has limits by design, but then is also missing limits on the lengths in arrays related to domains.
 * [kiara] We've seen issues on our end with hangs for large strings in some situations, especially storage. Would welcome more investigation on this problem space.
 * [dave] Can't think of a reason why having a long alarm name would be terribly useful.
 * [timothy] Also don't see a reason for an alarm name to have more than a reasonable number of characters (~100?)
 * [rob] I imagine use cases to key alarms by domain name, for which 100 would be too short. Could start with a reasonable max like 100,000. This is still well beyond what makes sense, but already an improvement over the current “unlimited” length.
 * [timothy] Could start with a high reasonable cap, like 1024.
 * [oliver] We may not have enough data yet, but based on what I can see, 100 is probably fine and 1024 definitely should be. Very few alarm names are longer than that.
 * [mukul] 500 characters is the limit on alarms API in the Windows platform. I don't know how it was derived.
 * [kiara] Should we align on 1024 as a starting point?
 * [rob] Want to wait for the data. Who is monitoring the data?
 * [oliver] I guess that Anton or I can monitor the data.
 * [anton] Recommend adding a warning.
 * [rob] That is a good deprecation plan, but requires us to know our preferred limit.

[Issue 338](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/338): Inconsistency: runtime.onMessage Promise return

 * [carlos] seems we can close this
 * [oliver] Definitely in Canary, but we ended up disabling it on release, because we discovered it not working in the devtools namespace.
 * [rob] I filed a bug for that in Chromium in the past. Can dig it up if it would be useful.
   * https://issues.chromium.org/issues/41483013
 * [dave] Is browser coming to Chrome in 145?
 * [oliver] Tentative plan is to enable it in 145. Need a couple more fixes first.
 * [timothy] Any updates on WPT?
 * [patrick] Not yet. Need to sync with Oliver.
 * [kiara] Sounds like we can circle back on this once this lands and, hopefully, close it out.

[Issue 422](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/422): Inconsistency: limits on browser.alarms.create()

 * [anton] Covered in previous discussion in [issue 935](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/935). We can skip this.

Housekeeping: Consider dropping Implemented:edge and renaming Implemented:chrome to Implemented: chromium

 * [carlos] There are situations where features can differ. Don't think we should remove the differentiation, but see utility in having a combined label.
 * [kiara] I don't think that we should drop Edge, in case of edge-specific differences.
 * [rob] Don't think we should introduce Chromium. If Chrome were to refuse something, the effective outcome is that it wouldn't land in Chromium. We should keep Chrome to cover Chrome and Chromium, and keep Edge to add separate labels as appropriate.
 * [oliver] Had similar thoughts. We also have the same with WebKit vs Safari.
 * [timothy] Same thoughts. If engine-based, should be everywhere, not just Chromium.

Housekeeping: Filenames for proposals: align on – vs \_

 * [oliver] I don't like underscores.
 * [timothy] Me neither, I feel strongly.
 * [simeon] I will dig up the W3C guidelines on API design.
 * [rob] No particular preference here, but I note that we currently do not have any conventions on file naming for proposals. So if we want to prefer either, we should start with having guidelines.
 * [kiara] Seems like in general we prefer - over \_. Should we have a style guide to help guide future API design?
 * [simeon] Yeah.
 * [carlos] Could specify in the template.
 * [timothy] Sounds useful. I've opened a previous issue about casing. That could be brought into this doc.
   * [Issue 563](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/563): New API enum values should use lowercase-dash-delimited style
 * [simeon] I'll take a shot at starting this doc.

Housekeeping: Website - what would you like to see?

 * [simeon] Would be nice to have a website for the WECG and WEWG. Might be useful to have a website coordinating the work we're doing. What features would you like to see?
 * [rob] Having a canonical location for coordination would be useful. Would want to have all of the information we need in the README of the repositories. I do not see the need for a separate website.
 * [oliver] Would like to see something that makes it easier for someone that's completely new to the group to get up to speed. How do I register, what meetings can I attend, etc. Would be great to have.
 * [simeon] Initial motivation was [tc39.es](https://tc39.es/), which provides a user-friendly landing page for the group and links out to various other resources. Recently when I wanted to view the current WebExtensions editors draft, I couldn't find a web flow that would take me there – I had to find the exact URL of the spec in order to view it. In the interest of time, I'll create an issue to discuss this further.

The next meeting will be on [Thursday, January 29th, 8 AM PST (4 PM UTC)](https://everytimezone.com/?t=697bf480,3c0).
