# WECG Meetings 2026, Public Notes, Mar 26

 * Chair: Simeon Vincent
 * Scribes: Rob Wu

Time: 8 AM PDT = https://everytimezone.com/?t=69c5c880,384
Call-in details: [WebExtensions CG, 26th March 2026](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/6a0eda89-558c-408d-b83d-5f03b8853c30/20260326T080000/)
Zoom issues? Ping @zombie (Tomislav Jovanovic) in [chat](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#joining-chat)


## Agenda: [discussion in #963](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/963), [github issues](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues)

The meeting will start at 3 minutes after the hour.

See [issue 531](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/531) for an explanation of this agenda format.

 * **Announcements** (5 minutes)
   * [WEWG Charter survey](https://www.w3.org/wbs/33280/webextensions-charter-2026/). Tell your AC rep!
   * [London F2F](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/wiki/2026-London-F2F-Coordination)
     * Sign-ups closed due to capacity limits
     * Agenda creation in progress
 * **Triage** (30 minutes)
   * [Issue 964](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/964): Proposal: declarativeNetRequest: matching based on request headers
   * [Issue 965](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/965): Proposal: expose user activation state in runtime.onMessage listener
   * [Issue 966](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/966): Auto-pinning of the extension icon only on specific sites
   * [Issue 967](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/967): Extension API to explicitly create split views or unsplit them
 * **Timely issues** (10 minutes)
   * (nominated issues here)
 * **Check-in on existing issues** (10 minutes)
   * (nominated issues here)


## Attendees (sign yourself in)

 1. Rob Wu (Mozilla)
 2. Oliver Dunk (Google)
 3. Maxim Topciu (AdGuard)
 4. Simeon Vincent (Unaffiliated)
 5. Brandon Lucier (1Password)
 6. Benjamin Bruneau (1Password)
 7. Timothy Hatcher (Apple)
 8. Ben Greenberg (Aglide)
 9. Kiara Rose (Apple)
 10. Mukul Purohit (Microsoft)
 11. Jordan Spivack (Capital One)
 12. David Johnson (Apple)
 13. Tim Judkins (Google)
 14. Tomislav Jovanovic (Mozilla)


## Meeting notes

Announcement: [WEWG Charter survey](https://www.w3.org/wbs/33280/webextensions-charter-2026/). Tell your AC rep!

 * [simeon] WebExtensions Working Group has been submitted to the Advisory Committee for review. W3 members can now answer the survey; please pass this survey to your AC representative. We need 5% (20) responses before this can move to the next stage.

Announcement: [London F2F](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/wiki/2026-London-F2F-Coordination)

 * [simeon] Event takes place on April 7 - 9 (Tuesday - Thursday) in London; Oliver and I started working on the agenda. We closed sign ups due to capacity limits. People can also attend remotely.
 * [oliver] If anyone meant to sign up, please reach out. Tentatively thinking of a 9-5 schedule. Office will open from 9AM and we will start sessions at 9:30AM. Lunch time shifts each day depending on plans. There will be breaks throughout.
 * [simeon] Some chunks of time are unscheduled and can be filled in during the week.

[Issue 964](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/964): Proposal: declarativeNetRequest: matching based on request headers

 * [simeon] DNR can match by response headers, gorhill would like to match by request headers as well.
 * [rob] Supportive - seems reasonable to me. Chrome is the only implementer of response header based matching right now.
 * [oliver] Supportive; we considered scheduling this for GSoC last year but it appeared to be too much work. Patches are still welcome.
 * [timothy] Not likely to get to this soon, but interested in supporting this.

[Issue 965](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/965): Proposal: expose user activation state in runtime.onMessage listener

 * [simeon] The main blocker I see is that we don't currently support the concept of User Activation in extension APIs. In order to expose it here, we first need to align on how we support this. Ideally we'd use the web's approach rather than creating our own parallel version of the same concepts.
 * [rob] “Just integrating with DOM APIs“ does not provide a solution since it does not have built-in integration of the user activation concept (unrelated event.isTrusted at most).
 * [rob] Just having sender.hasUserActivation does not do much unless we also have explicit ways to transfer user activation from one context to another. Otherwise an extension can duplicate the signal and trigger multiple actions that individually should consume the user activation signal.
 * [simeon] A browser-managed flag can more effectively protect against compromised renderers.
 * [timothy] If we can integrate with DOM events that would give us a common base to build on; Supportive of adding a flag to MessageSender.
 * [rob] That would only be a signal of the activation in the page, right, not curry the flag?
 * [timothy] Yes. Less utility if we don't carry over activation, but still an improvement.
 * [rob] I am also supportive of exposing the flag for informational purposes only. With the caveat that the signal does not mean much, e.g. if consumed/cleared later, the flag is still reflecting the old state.
 * [timothy] How much utility is there if we don't carry the activation?
 * [rob] Doesn't seem like much. Password managers, do you see utility in having the flag provided by the browser vs. passing the flag yourself?
 * [benjamin] Feels extremely useful. Some of the major issues we have at the moment are related to clickjacking. I don't know of a major use offhand, but it feels like the kind of thing we would lean on if we could.
 * [rob] Does the extension trust the content script, or treat the content process (renderer) as potentially compromised?
 * [benjamin] We treat content scripts as hostile. Any additional checks we can add to strengthen this are useful.
 * [simeon]
 * [rob] This discussion boils down to whether or not browsers actually have validation browser side of user activation. Otherwise it's equivalent to an extension sending it in a message.
 * [oliver] I will check with Tim.
 * [benjamin] Before we get too far, having this flag on a content script message would be useful for action.openPopup().
 * [rob] You can pass this yourself using event.userActivation in the content script.
 * [oliver] Also worth noting that removing user gesture requirement from openPopup is landing in Firefox and is already the case in Chrome and Safari. Thanks for helping get this over the line, Rob.
 * [rob] In Firefox 149 released this week, extensions can now call `action.openPopup()` without requiring a user gesture.

[Issue 966](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/966): Auto-pinning of the extension icon only on specific sites

 * [simeon] Although this topic (UI) falls outside the charter, I'm happy to discuss it in the group and mark it as such.
 * [simeon] API support for site-specific functionality when page actions do not exist.
 * [rob] Clear action here is to support page action. I recall its removal in Chrome being a controversial change back then. Firefox and Safari still support pageAction.
 * [tim] There's some capability provided here in declarative action handling. Don't recall the exact motivation.
 * [simeon] As I recall there were desires on the Chromium side to move away from declarative actions, not sure if that was the API or concept.
 * [rob] As I recall it's the declarativeContent API.
 * [rob] There are already APIs to allow extensions to declare intent (declarativeContent, Firefox's `page_action.show_matches`). The lack of APIs is not a constraint here; it is what browsers do with it.
 * [oliver] Do enough browsers use this signal to make it worth specifying? Also, the discussion linked to a CL for pinning extensions by default. That's personal experimentation, not an official feature we're pursuing.

[Issue 967](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/967): Extension API to explicitly create split views or unsplit them

 * [rob] Currently no explicit API for interacting with split views. Curious if folks have thoughts on the shape or capabilities.
 * [simeon] Split views currently have exactly two tabs. Is this a universal assumption?
 * [rob] Firefox also has that assumption. The extension APIs as implemented right now are independent of that assumption though.
 * [rob] Question for what capabilities are missing is how to create a split. Adding a split could mean adding a new tab to a split or grouping two existing tabs together in a split view. For the first scenario I'm hesitant about creating a new API when we may have a perfectly serviceable way of creating splits in tabs.create.
 * [timothy] Maybe tabs.update would be better?
 * [rob] Interacting with a split view requires interacting with at least two tabs at a time. In theory, when splitViewId on one of the tabs is set to -1 to signal unsplitting, the other tab in the split can follow. But it is not possible to do the same for two, unless the input is something like `relatedTabIdInSplitView`. The shape of the API should make it clear that you're interacting with multiple tabs. Firefox currently has only one way to take tabs out of a split, with `tabs.move` taking at least three tabIds, with another tab specified between two tabs in a split.
 * [oliver] Rob reached out to me before about split views. There were two questions here. One was related to creating a new split. We would prefer to have an explicit API there over a flag on another method.
 * [rob] If you have two tabs you're working with and you want to create a split, that's obvious and I'm supportive of a new method for that. What about the situation where you have an existing tab and you want to create a split with a new tab that has yet to be created? Chrome and Firefox have distinct content when a split view is created for an existing tab.
 * [oliver] Don't know that we've discussed this explicitly. I think we'd want an explicit API but perhaps this case is different.
 * [rob] Right, but then you're duplicating functionality from `tabs.create()`.
 * [oliver] The other issue was movement semantics. We are open to changing our behavior there, and have no strong feelings.
 * [rob] In Chrome the split view is eagerly taken apart; in Firefox we keep split views together as much as possible.
 * [rob] I can work on a proposal for that.

The next meeting will be on [Thursday, April 9th, 8 AM PDT (3 PM UTC)](https://everytimezone.com/?t=69d83d80,384), during the face-to-face meetup in London. Europe is back in sync with Pacific in terms of Daylight Saving Time!
