# 2026 WECG London F2F, Public Notes, Apr 9

Thursday, the third day of the three-day face-to-face meeting in London (announcement: [#951](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/951)). Agenda: https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/wiki/2026-London-F2F-Coordination


## Agenda

 * [State of the browsers](#state-of-the-browsers)
   * [Mozilla Firefox](#mozilla-firefox)
   * [Apple Safari](#apple-safari)
   * [Microsoft Edge](#microsoft-edge)
   * [Google Chrome](#google-chrome)
   * [Q&A](#qa)
 * [Extension Origins](#extension-origins)
 * [Main World Shared Params](#main-world-shared-params)
 * [Synchronous data at startup](#synchronous-data-at-startup)
 * [WebExt Types](#webext-types)
 * [runtime.onInvalidated reasons](#runtimeoninvalidated-reasons)
 * [Pull request and issue triage](#pull-request-and-issue-triage)
   * [PR 799: Add browser.permissions.canAccess() proposal](#pr-799-add-browserpermissionscanaccess-proposal)
   * [PR 837: Proposal: close() Method for the sidePanel API](#pr-837-proposal-close-method-for-the-sidepanel-api)
   * [PR 676: Proposal: Public Suffix API](#pr-676-proposal-public-suffix-api)
   * [PR 370: Initial Firefox schemas, 2023Q1](#pr-370-initial-firefox-schemas-2023q1)
   * [PR 791: Add trial\_tokens key to specification](#pr-791-add-trial_tokens-key-to-specification)
   * [PR 822: Proposal: privacy.websites.thirdPartyCookiesAccessible](#pr-822-proposal-privacywebsitesthirdpartycookiesaccessible)
   * [Issue 75: Standardize Firefox exportFunction() and cloneInto()](#issue-75-standardize-firefox-exportfunction-and-cloneinto)
   * [PR 975: Update runtime.onInvalidated with unload reason and isolated world restriction](#pr-975-update-runtimeoninvalidated-with-unload-reason-and-isolated-world-restriction)
   * [Issue 893: Web request tainting (Collusion/Lightbeam)](#issue-893-web-request-tainting-collusionlightbeam)
   * [Issue 732: Proposal: Add permanentNodeType property to BookmarkTreeNode](#issue-732-proposal-add-permanentnodetype-property-to-bookmarktreenode)
   * [Issue 976: Add manifest key to allow devtools\_page to run when inspecting service worker contexts](#issue-976-add-manifest-key-to-allow-devtools_page-to-run-when-inspecting-service-worker-contexts)
   * [Issue 461 Proposal: webRequest worklets](#issue-461-proposal-webrequest-worklets)
   * [PR 942: Proposal: i18n.getAvailableLanguages()](#pr-942-proposal-i18ngetavailablelanguages)
   * [Issue 338: Inconsistency: runtime.onMessage Promise return](#issue-338-inconsistency-runtimeonmessage-promise-return)
 * [Regular WECG meeting](#regular-wecg-meeting)


## Attendees

 * Devlin Cronin (Google Chrome)
 * Oliver Dunk (Google Chrome)
 * Patrick Kettner (Google Chrome)
 * Rob Wu (Mozilla)
 * Tomislav Jovanovic (Mozilla)
 * Kiara Rose (Apple)
 * Carlos Jeurissen (Jeurissen Apps)
 * Ben Greenberg (Aglide)
 * Jonathan Kingston (DuckDuckGo)
 * Dave Vandyke (DuckDuckGo)
 * Simeon Vincent (Independent)
 * Benjamin Bruneau (1Password)
 * Brandon Lucier (1Password)
 * Dean Murphy (eyeo)
 * Mukul Purohit (Microsoft)
 * Nitisha Rathi (Microsoft)
 * Casey Garland (Capital One)
 * Thomas Greiner (eyeo)
 * Maxim Topciu (AdGuard) (remote)


## Notes


### State of the browsers


#### Mozilla Firefox

 * [rob] UI features - tab groups and split views. Split views are in active development. Recently added basic extensions APIs. From those learnings we plan to create additional proposals. Currently missing an API to create split views.
 * [rob] Recently landed some changes particularly useful to password managers. `action.openPopup()` doesn't require a user gesture any more. WebAuthN relying party ID can now be claimed by an extension if the extension has host permissions.
 * [rob] Content scripts: executeScript method could execute content scripts in extension documents. Not intentional and deprecated, will be removed in the near future.
 * [rob] about:blank documents now load synchronously. As a result content scripts may run earlier than previously expected.
 * [rob] Reliability - content script execution order is now guaranteed. Now executes in the order declared in the manifest.json.
 * [rob] AMO added support for rollback, [blog post: roll back to a previous version of your extension](https://blog.mozilla.org/addons/2025/09/19/now-you-can-roll-back-to-a-previous-version-of-your-extension/).


#### Apple Safari

 * [kiara] WebExtensions in WebKit. Since moving into WebKit, we've seen adoption in other browsers. Also seen contributions from the community, thanks Carlos :)
 * [kiara] Interoperability has been a big area of focus. Added support for loading extensions in WebDriver. Intending to continue to expand cross-browser tests in WPT.
 * [kiara] Bug fixes: big focus on DNR in the past year. Lots of small bug fixes, features we weren't able to implement in the first pass, adding support for big content blockers we didn't previously have. If you have any issues or inconsistencies, please let us know.
 * [kiara] New ways to test extensions in Safari. Automated with WebDriver or loading extensions temporarily in Safari on macOS. Allows testing without having to use XCode.
 * [kiara] New APIs on iOS. Can now navigate users to extension settings on iOS. Had it on macOS, but didn't have an equivalent on iOS. This API navigates directly to the correct location in System Settings. Call openExtensionSettings from a native app with the [SFSafariSettings](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/safariservices/sfsafarisettings) API.
 * [kiara] Looking forward to continuing to work with the broader web extensions community. Hope to continue working providing tools to help extension devs.


#### Microsoft Edge

 * [nitisha] Added support for extensions in Edge on iOS. Extensions on Android are already available and access has been opened up a bit. Currently have ~30 verified extensions, but users can manually navigate to and install any extension.
 * [nitisha] Extension developer user experience: review time has been reduced from ~5 days to ~1.5 days. Still focused on improving this area. Looking to accelerate updates of non-risky updates. There were also a lot of bugs in the submission flow where developers were getting stuck due to random errors. Over 90 bugs fixed in that flow. Let us know if you encounter any other issues.
 * [nitisha] Added the ability to generate a description based on AI. A significant number of extensions were failing review due to inaccurate descriptions. This flow generates a description based on the extension package. Especially helpful for new developers.
 * [nitisha] Continued improving developer support. Developers should get a response in less than 24 hours.
 * [nitisha] Store redesign launched within the past year. Made improvements to the installation flow. Made it easier for users to find extensions after installation. Added support for user script access in an extension.
 * [nitisha] Streamlined the process for the Featured badge in the store.


#### Google Chrome

 * [devlin] Number of improvements on the platform side. Repeatedly launched (and rolled back) the browser namespace. Now available for almost all extensions. Notable exception is extensions that use the DevTools API. Once we have promise support to those APIs, the webextensions-polyfill will no longer be necessary.
 * [devlin] `runtime.onMessage` now also has support for promises. Added support for structured cloning with extension messages via an opt-in in `manifest.json`. There are differences between JSON serialization and structured cloning, so it's up to you to choose which you want to use.
 * [dave] What's different?
 * [devlin] There are certain types that are serialized differently.
 * [oliver] Objects with a `.toJSON` method are handled differently.
 * [devlin] I believe there are some types that serialize to null. Structured cloning also supports more types.
 * [mukul] Firefox?
 * [rob] Firefox already supports structured cloning from the beginning.
 * [devlin] Also did a bunch of other improvements to the messaging APIs. Bringing more consistency to things like handling errors thrown in onMessage.
 * [devlin] Further improvements to service worker reliability for both extensions and the web.
 * [devlin] Changed user script permission handling to use a field on the extension page rather than keyed on Developer mode.
 * [devlin] Coming soon, working on changes to support WPT. Also have support coming to set forbidden headers, etc.
 * [oliver] Web Store improvements aimed at advanced use cases. Already supported the ability to publish within a company on the same Google Workspace domain. Added support for publishing to other domains.
 * [oliver] Launched an improved appeals process. Some appeals can now be made directly through the developer dashboard.
 * [oliver] Added support for verified uploads. This allows you to sign with your private key before sending to CWS. This allows you to protect against attacks where someone gets control of your developer dashboard and publishes a new version with malicious content.
 * [dave] Isn't this adding back a feature you previously removed?
 * [oliver] We want to manage the actual signing key of the package distributed to users, because once lost, there is no way to publish updates again. If your key is lost, we have a mechanism for developers to recover their ability to publish.
 * [oliver] Launched a second version of the webstore API. Some new capabilities include updating percentage rollout without triggering a review. Using a lot of the Google common infrastructure for building APIs, should now be more consistent with how other Google APIs are documented, can use standard Google libraries to integrate. Plan to continue investing in the API. Let us know if you have any feature requests.


#### Q&A

 * [thomas] Question about verified uploads. If we have a signed build, would that still be compatible with the other stores? Or do we need to generate a separate build for Chrome.
 * [oliver] You can create a build for all browsers and do an extra step to sign in Chrome.
 * [thomas] So a separate artifact then?
 * [oliver] Yes. The signature is metadata on the archive.
 * [mukul] I don't think Edge supports uploading a CRX archive.
 * [nitisha] I believe we will fail on upload.
 * [carlos] Edge store currently rejects submissions with a `key` property set in the manifest.
 * [mukul] If this is a common workflow, we can look into it.
 * [carlos] Does verified uploads affect the ability for other browsers (Chromium forks) to install these extensions?
 * [oliver] Shouldn't affect other browser. We perform signature verification to verify the upload, but we strip it out and resign the package before distribution.
 * [dave] Can you publish the store's public key to allow others to verify the signatures of the package?
 * [oliver] Don't know how easily accessible the public key is. The only thing you can get from the public key is the chrome extension ID, which you can already get.
 * [rob] Are you referring to the extension's public key? Dave was asking about the public key of the keypair used to sign the extension by the store.
 * [oliver] I'm not sure how public that is.
 * [mukul] Motivation for this feature?
 * [oliver] Popular extensions have been compromised and the malicious actor publishes a new version. This flow requires both CWS dashboard access and the ability to sign the extension.
 * [rob] Wouldn't two factor help here?
 * [oliver] The current mechanisms supports publication via CI pipelines.
 * [rob] CI can be compromised.
 * [oliver] We support using OAuth to authenticating to the CWS API. Possible for a malicious actor to get a CWS auth key and abuse that to upload other packages. This still requires that you have a signed package at upload time as well as the authenticated session.

 * [rob] Forbidden headers. Will this require a permission without warning? A permission might be nice to let you know which extensions are modifying forbidden headers.
 * [devlin] Don't have a super strong position, but I'm inclined not to. Roughly in line with the cross origin restrictions made possible through host permissions. Opposed to a user facing warning, but seems unnecessary to have a permission
 * [rob ] Concerned about situations where extensions accidentally take arbitrary input on a forbidden header. Desire is to set a (low) bar so that only extensions opting in to it are exposed.
 * [devlin] Intuition is that it would be extra work for us, extra work for developers, for very little benefit.
 * [dave] Why do extensions need to do this?
 * [devlin] Main use is setting the Origin header. If you have host permissions, we strip the origin to make it look like a request from the same site, but in some cases the origin header is required.
 * [rob] User script managers also have an API to send authenticated requests, so they want to set the appropriate headers (e.g. Authentication).


### Extension Origins

 * [rob] Problem with extension origins is that they are both well known and random/identifiable. In some cases the server wants to identify the extension. In Firefox we don't support a public origin. I started to support that by adding a fixed origin for WebAuthN use.
 * [rob] Extensions declare web_accessible_resources with broad access. LinkedIn, for example, has been observed collecting information about a user's installed extensions. BrowserGate ([BrowserGate.eu](https://browsergate.eu/)). Don't have a specific solution, but do want to get somewhere. Potential solutions could involve backwards incompatible changes, may require slow rollout, but lowering identifiability would be a big win.
 * [rob] Another historical bit is that in Chrome's MV1 extension resources were available by default, which can be abused for fingerprinting. This was locked down by default with `web_accessible_resources` in MV2.
 * [devlin] Not added to protect against fingerprinting. Was added because extensions don't sanitize anything. XSS attacks were rampant.
 * [rob] Still have a problem with the current mechanism. Extensions can only opt into WAR or not exposing it at all.
 * [devlin] In MV3 we support exposing through select sites and using a dynamic URL.
 * [rob] For use cases like ad blockers, you have to expose it everywhere.
 * [devlin] By using a random unguessable URL you are exposing it in only select locations.
 * [rob] The origin may be different, but patterns are detectable in paths they can still be detected.
 * [devlin] I think it's unrealistic for us to make it impossible for web pages to detect extensions. If an extension injects a resource directly or indirectly on a page, we can't stop detection of that resource.
 * [rob] Can we improve the defaults? Developers may not be aware of fingerprinting risk.
 * [devlin] Not just a doc issue, but more broadly a developer outreach issue. In MV3 you still have to expose resources on specific sites. In many cases in the migration to MV3 developers just want to port something that works over to whatever works. If we had useDynamicURL enabled by default, the path of least resistance is to turn it off. They've explicitly opted into a less secure option.
 * [rob] Most extensions that insert a resource would probably work.
 * [simeon] IMO inaccurately assumes developers are using getURL correctly.
 * [devlin] We've seen a lot of extensions using the extension ID or hardcoding.
 * [rob] How does Chrome expose extension origin in fetch()?
 * [devlin] If you have host permissions, we do not include the extension origin.
 * [rob] Is there way for extension to opt in?
 * [devlin] Forbidden headers support coming
 * [rob] Do you verify the extension origin to prevent spoofing?
 * [devlin] Can't you already do that with DNR?
 * [rob] We verify extension origins in our implementation (this is for Host header, not Origin).
 * [devlin] We don't, but we could. Please file a feature request.
 * [dave] Is it a content script in the page doing a fetch request?
 * [devlin] Matches the page itself.
 * [dave] Where was the scenario where the origin is omitted?
 * [rob] If the background makes the request.
 * [rob] Would like to get to the place where the origin is not included by default, but can be set through the new fetch features.
 * [devlin] If we always omit, it would look like a same origin request.
 * [rob] Intent is to limit exposure of origin when it is not need. Could also use a dummy/null origin that looks like an extension origin.
 * [devlin] Makes things complicated. Currently plan is that you can only set the origin if you had host permissions. If you want to set it to yourself and you don't have host permission, we have to allow setting forbidden headers or setting your own origin.
 * [rob] Origin case is a special header. Maybe you're not allowed to set it unless to your own origin.
 * [devlin] See use cases for making requests from other origins.
 * [rob] Intent is to protect the extension origin.
 * [devlin] Can see that being reasonable. But see that getting to complex checks of can you set the origin header.
 * [rob] If the origin is an extension origin, you only have to check if it's you.
 * [thomas] Right now we can't differentiate between forks or copy cats. If we could restrict origin modifications to an extension's own origin, we could potentially report them to the stores.
 * [devlin] A server should not be using the origin header as a form of authentication
 * [thomas] Useful additional information. Can't differentiate in our telemetry our users having problems vs. a copycat breaking something. Can also see an argument that this would be exposing something to use that shouldn't be?
 * [devlin] Shouldn't be a security issue.
 * [thomas] Just getting rid of noise.
 * [oliver] Should be able to set to any web origin.
 * [devlin] Could theoretically limit extensions setting an origin to something they have host permissions for.
 * [simeon] Feels like a good requirement.
 * [devlin] Going back to the original question of can we make this better, changing defaults I suspect wouldn't solve things in most cases. I'm not opposed to changing the default in an MV4, but I'd be hesitant about doing a slow rollout. More interested in potential mitigations in the browser. For example, if a website makes 10 requests that all fail, block subsequent requests. No reason for a site to be making thousands of requests.
 * [rob] For cases where we want to expose something to all urls, would be nice to do so without exposing the extension's origin. Would also like to have something like Chrome's favicon URL

 * [ben] In a popup window where the URL is displayed, …
 * [devlin] Don't think that's something we'd do. Can only validate origins at the store level. Can't know that in Chrome unless we assume the extension is from the store and has done that validation. For specific things like the display of the title bar and URL, that's a UX thing browsers should fix. In Chrome, if you open an extension tab there's a chip to the left of the URL that shows the extension's name because it's more useful than the ID. Don't know if we do that in popup windows. If we don't, would be open to improving that.
 * [devlin] Outside the scope fo this group, but in Chrome we consider the URL shown in the bar is sacred. We want that to be trustable and accurate. Even if an extension is affiliated with a site, we wouldn't want to show the site unless you're actually on that site. But I agree with the point that its ugly.
 * [rob] Are we willing to consider allowing an extension to associate itself with a domain?
 * [ben] That's basically what I was asking. Tying your extension to a domain via a given vendor.
 * [rob] Could be in scope to have a site association mechanism, which may be in scope in the group.
 * [devlin] For clarity, was saying what we show in the URL bar is out of scope. Wouldn't want non-extension store installed extensions to spoof any URL.
 * [rob] Extension and website can cross-reference each other, and have the browser validate it regularly.
 * [devlin] Suggesting poll the website to check validity?
 * [rob] Not necessarily frequently, but like certificate verification, we can periodically check. Could show the more readable origin as long as that validation lasts.
 * [rob] Also in desktop notifications we want to show something useful, but if we do the same thing as the web, we'd just show a UUID.
 * [devlin] I think in that case we need better UX, not to hide the origin.
 * [ben] Like looking up the name of the extension and using that in place.
 * [devlin] Yes. In short, I would not want us to lie about the origin.
 * [ben] Use case I can see is redirects. Server returning a 302 to navigate to an extension page.
 * [devlin] Can do that in an extension by intercepting and redirecting requests.


### Main World Shared Params

 * (11:15)
   * [Issue 284](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/284): Main world Content Script shared params
 * [rob] We discussed this topic yesterday, why is this on the agenda again?
 * [jonathan] I think that we wanted to discuss this again. (...)
 * [rob] Ah I see. Then this is the synchronous data topic, which I wanted to revisit.


### Synchronous data at startup

 * [rob] Looked at the proposal again after discussions last night.
   * https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/793
 * [rob] Yesterday I said the API shape wasn't finalized, because there was feedback from Timothy on the PR that I had not addressed then. Took a look at the feedback he provided. May be a slight misunderstanding. He suggested having a single storage area since there's no precedent for one area affecting another. Another user commented asking for a separate storage area. Curious for opinions.
 * [devlin] Strongly think we shouldn't mix data available in content scripts and extension-specific contexts.
 * [rob] Okay, that rules out other options. I'll still briefly talk through the other options I explored because they may be relevant to other (existing) storage areas. `setAccessLevel` is a method that allows setting whether the area is exposed to content scripts. When it was implemented in Chrome, there was a call out for specific keys. Not all relevant discussion is public. Devlin, do you know why more properties aren't supported? Currently you can only expose the entire area or none.
 * [devlin] Seems messy and hard.
 * [rob] Would you be open to exploring it?
 * [devlin] Would prefer not to. Would prefer to simply not expose `storage` to content scripts.
 * [rob] Other options I discussed: setAccess method. See the comment on the issue.
 * [rob] With that said, I think we're essentially at the final API shape. Please proceed with the review as if this were what we would all implement.
 * [rob] Yesterday I also mentioned that it would be nice if onChanged events can be filtered, there is an existing proposal for that at https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/475 (“Proposal: StorageArea.onChanged filters”)
 * [rob] That's all for this. I mostly wanted to clarify this design point and we got that quickly.
 * [jonathan] are these sections named contentScriptConfig and extensionConfig?
 * [rob] Yes. Open to changing names, but that's the current plan. Welcome to bikeshed on the PR.
 * [thomas] Regarding getters, you mentioned privileged contexts can't get access to the contentScriptConfig. Not specifically mentioned if you can write data to the context script section in the background.
 * [rob] I have a pending clarification that privileged extension contexts can read and write asynchronously.
 * [dave] Suggest tweaking the wording. I don't think I'd have taken this wording to mean what you said.
 * [rob] Could discuss domain and origin specific data. Currently left as an area of future work.
 * [jonathan] Worth clarifying that this area should not contain sensitive data?
 * [devlin] Yes.
 * [rob] Can include this in a security section.
 * [benjamin] There's something there about this. Another question: changes you have staged include writing to the config asynchronously as is reading in the background. Reading can be sync in content scripts. Can it be sync in extension contexts?
 * [rob] Explicitly async by design. Allows sync reading in content scripts.
 * [thomas] Sync reading is the more important case for us. Would like to better understand the quota. If splitting by origin isn't going to help, is there something else we could consider to help increase the quota?
 * [rob] It's synchronously available, so it needs to be available in all processes. If you have a hundred processes, the data is duplicated across all. Potential improvements for shared memory. If there are explicit needs to increase, we can discuss, but the current limit felt like a good start.
 * [devlin] Related note, someone on my team is looking at a proposal for async event registration. We don't have anything ready to share out, hopefully within the next month. Don't think that would obviate the utility of this proposal or vise versa.
 * [jonathan] I think Rob's proposal and dom.execute resolve #284.

Bikeshedding!

 * [devlin] I'd propose we don't use the same storage area interface for this and async storage. Having ⅓ that work one, ⅓ that work in the other, and ⅓ that work in both. Want to clean up getKeysSync etc. and not have those work on the all the other areas.
 * [rob] The proposed ConfigStorageArea is a completely separate interface. Inspired by storage, but distinct and doesn't appear on the other storage area. That's why it uses a different name.
 * [devlin] Why would you have a sync and async variant for gets.
 * [rob] Because it's a different storage area.
 * [devlin] But it's distinct?
 * [rob] Inspired by StorageArea. Wanted interfaces to be similar
 * [devlin] Does not have to be for a new API. Can drop getSync/getKeysSync and make get/getKeys sync.
 * [rob] Sounds good to me.
 * …
 * [devlin] Set, remove, clear will need to be async.
 * [rob] Willing to make getBytesInUse sync if needed, no strong opinions there.
 * [devlin] Avoids duplicate methods and confusion between storage reas.
 * [oliver] Did we clarify when the async method calls resolve?
 * [devlin] Should resolve without waiting for it to have been updated in all renderers
 * [oliver] Does that get tricky?
 * [rob] Could add a new method flush to make sure it has really happened.
 * [devlin] Makes sense
 * [oliver] Hesitant. As a dev you have to understand more of the internals.
 * [dave] If you have set, if you care you can wait. If you don't care, you don't have to.
 * [devlin] If there's one slow renderer, the call never resolves.
 * [dave] Right, could surprise people if it doesn't resolve as expected.
 * [devlin] I'd be in favor of flush. Set resolves once storage has been written to disk. Flush resolves when all rendered finish. And yes, you'd need to understand some more information about the internals.
 * [rob] This API provides clear points where if you want to know the state of the data; interested scripts can read with `getSync` (`get`) and monitor changes with `onChanged`. If you try to mix APIs like messaging, it could get out of sync and complicated.
 * [devlin] For concrete use cases, you want to send a message to a tab after setting state and you want to make sure it got there.
 * [jonathan] Could flush be an area of future work?
 * [dave] Could it be an argument instead?
 * [rob] I think developers would like to have additional guarantees.
 * [devlin] I don't think it's required for the initial implementation.
 * [oliver] BFCache could also be tricky.
 * [rob] Was thinking extension developers could call get sync again in that case.


### WebExt Types

 * [oliver] Brief intro based on my understanding. Types are good. We like types. Writing in TypeScript helps make sure you're using the correct parameters. There are a few different package that provide types, and they all pull from different sources. Devs don't have a good understanding of the tradeoffs or when what should be used. We don't have great advice either. I think the most popular is @types/chrome, community maintained, devs add updates as they see/detect them. APIs supported in Chrome attempt to be exhaustive, includes types not supported elsewhere. Since this is in the DefinitelyTyped package, it has the @types prefix. I think this is changing recently. @types prefixes are automatically picked up by TypeScript.
 * [oliver] There are a couple other packages. Chrome-types. Used internally, also published externally. Generated from the Chromium source code. Not community maintained. Used less than the other package.
 * [oliver] Third package is web-ext-types. Based on MDN docs. Closes thing I'm aware of for a cross-browser resource
 * [rob] @types/webextension-polyfill, derived from Firefox types.
 * [carlos] overview:
   * https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/chrome
   * https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/webextension-polyfill
   * https://www.npmjs.com/package/chrome-types
   * https://www.npmjs.com/package/web-ext-types
 * [oliver] Also tracks mdn?
 * [rob] I believe this is based on schemas from the polyfill which are derived from Firefox.
 * [oliver] A few options. We could do nothing and let the community sort it. Spoke to DefinitelyTyped maintainers and they indicated community packages are only maintained when there isn't an official resource.
 * [brandon] We use a mix of @types/chrome and @types/webextension-polifyill. We've had several incidents of devs using things they think exist based on its presence in chrome-types.
 * [oliver] Recognize it's difficult as a union of everything available can be a foot gun.
 * [benjamin] I believe we use both because the polyfill one supports the browser namespace, the Chrome one does the chrome namespace.
 * [ben] Was thinking about creating a set of types that are compatible against all 3, tagging everything with optional in order to force devs to check against undefined.
 * [rob] Suggestion is to combine all schemas together and tag anything that isn't well supported as optional?
 * [ben] Yes
 * [jonathan] How about ESR?
 * [rob] We kept ESR115 alive for OSs like Windows 7, but that is maintenance-only based on a branch originally released in 2023.
 * [dave] This has bitten me in the past. Not sure what the solution is, but glad you're considering it.
 * [oliver] Useful to confirm it's a common problem.
 * [thomas] We use web extension polyfill because its the lowest common denominator. Would be nice to have type info across browsers. Regardless of whats exposed, we still need to check ourselves what's available and supported. We extend the webextension-polyfill types with some additional data.
 *
 * [rob] Is there a way to configure types?
 * [ben] Not like being able to tweak the types for a given browser, but you can't say support this level of features from this browser.
 * [rob] Could imagine publishing baseline values for given dates.
 * [ben] Node does something similar for it's types.
 * [simeon] Could potentially publish a type package with multiple releases, allow devs to import the versioned resource they care about.
 * [ben] … TS types could be a source of authority.
 * [rob] BCD provides that. Some additional complexities are, for example, `browser` global being exposed and removed multiple times by Chrome. Differences between features that are shipped, behind flags, enabled, trials, rollouts, etc.
 * [oliver] Way this is solved on the web is you have types that are supported everywhere. There's been work on BCD data being exposed in linters. Possible to have a common set of types we all target and agree on in the group, pull in BCD data.
 * [oliver] My concern with packaging type versions tied to a date is that if we realize we got the types wrong for a date, do we need to figure out how to get updates out for a given date.
 * [ben] You do that with the patch version number. Major and minor stay the same.
 * [benjamin] As usage in general, don't think people are pinning to the latest version. Wouldn't worry about breaking something by publishing a new latest.
 * [jonathan] On this optional thing, if that approach was chosen, you'd probably get a lot of lint errors to check optional in your code base when something becomes non-optional.
 * [ben] No error in that case.
 * [jonathan] Might be our strict linter settings.
 * [rob] What if there are differences between API signatures? E.g. recently `action.isEnabled`
 * [ben] Couple of options. Not clear on the right approach.
 * [dave] Could there be a couple globals exposed, one for each engine.
 * [simeon] Union of the top level globals.
 * [ben] Unions can be a bit rough to work with. Would suggest function overloads. Depends quite a lot on how many inconsistencies there are.
 * [rob] Chrome has added support for structured cloning. Changes what values are accepted in messages.
 * [ben] Don't think that's handled directly by types.
 * [oliver] I think `any` would be the best option, then use some discretion when calling.

 * [rob] Who or what decides what the canonical shape should be, if there are differences between implementations?
 * [ben] Would suggest leaning on specs. Ultimately I think leaning on optional is the best for indicating inconsistencies/incompatibilities.
 * [benjamin] JSdoc could be useful.
 * [dave] I think unions may work on the globals as deeply nested inconsistencies would be flagged as needing to be checked.
 * [jonathan] The issue is the consumer needs to unpack the types to figure out what's supported.
 *
 * [oliver] Are you suggesting we create our own package and have browser specific packages and try to align the types between them?
 * [patrick] Is there a reason that if we all collaborated on one you'd rather have individual packages?
 * [dave] Assumed each browser would want to control its own. Might be a faulty assumption.
 * [oliver] Complexities around things like sidebar, where there are browser specific namespaces. Community incentive is to use individual packages as that directly matches the browser they're targeting.
 * [oliver] Sounds like the desire is for the community group to have a types package?
 * [thomas] Should each manifest version have their own package?
 * [oliver] I don't think so, generally most APIs are similar. Could mark as deprecated and eventually remove.
 * [thomas] What if they are not deprecated? Firefox still supports MV2
 * [kiara] We also support MV2 in Safari.
 * [oliver] The pain of maintaining separate packages outweighs the exceptions where they differ.
 * [simeon] Other ecosystems like Java has annotations such as “deprecated since”.
 * [ben] Are there extensions building for MV2/MV3?
 * [benjamin] If there are multiple contexts it is too easy to lose context and have bugs (which isolated world, manifest version, etc.). Would be useful to have browser-specific packages with the same shapes.
 * [rob] I was thinking similarly. And then one type that aggregates all, the lowest common denominator. Then extensions can use that, and use browser-specific types for other cases.
 * [dave] Browser-specific type packages, plus union of all in a browser type package.
 * [rob] Union or intersection, mathematically speaking?
 * [simeon] union as in Typescript.
 * [dave] For overlapping types collapsed to a type, and otherwise a union.
 *
 * [rob] Who would maintain these packages, even if we agree to have it under our umbrella?
 * [oliver] I can put up a proposal.
 * [jonathan] Do browsers have a common understanding of the types, e.g. webidl?
 * [simeon] Browsers have differences, even in parts that overlap in IDL (which also differ between and within some browsers). IDL is more concerned with what browsers implement and not directly compatible with types.
 * [jonathan] That would be a 1:1 transformation, right?
 * [simeon] Can lean on mdn/BCD.
 * [rob] Some IDL/JSON schemas do not capture the full interface, some properties are checked at runtime separate from API bindings.
 * [oliver] Some parts of generation can be automated, but there is always an editorial step.
 * [oliver] Summarizing, there is an interest in a package. I can open an issue and proposal, and reach out to existing maintainers.


### runtime.onInvalidated reasons

 * (14:15)
   * [Issue 138](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/138): Proposal: let content scripts listen for event to detect when the extension is unloaded (for various reasons)
   * https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/proposals/runtime_on_invalidated.md
 * [oliver] We were looking into implementing this. Current reasons “uninstall”, “update”, “reload”, “disable”. Disabling and reloading extensions are closely related in Chrome. Difficult to distinguish. We could potentially, but Devlin was inclined to merge “reload”, “update” and “disable” into one reason.
 * [thomas] Would this be exposed to content scripts?
 * [devlin] Only exposed to content scripts.
 * [dave] …
 * [devlin] Wouldn't be able to request permission. Wouldn't give that level of granularity in the disabled reason.
 * [thomas] This wouldn't exist in Firefox since those scripts are removed, correct?
 * [rob] I believe this was also discussed in the issue. We clean it up because it's nice to, but could let it live longer. Potentially could allow opt in/out if it matters to control the behavior. E.g. if `runtime.onInvalidated` listener is registered, keep the context alive.
 * [simeon] Firefox only cleans up the isolated world, correct?
 * [rob] Yes.
 * [simeon] Relevant because you can't receive the signal in the isolated world and notify the main world for any potential cleanup.
 * [rob] I see why you want to combine them, but also see why developers would like to distinguish between these cases.
 * [devlin] But we don't always know.
 * [rob] But if we do, we can set it. Preparing to update to the next version, followed by a `browser.runtime.reload()` call.
 * [devlin] We could only have like 80 percent accuracy. Not generally in favor of flakey behavior. Users sometimes reload an extension by disabling and reenabling it. When you update but something happens (e.g. new permissions) that prevent re-enabling. Can see signaling on suspension as the safest common. Would prefer APIs that we can ensure firing 100% of the time.
 * [carlos] But what are those cases?
 * [devlin] The reason that we'd communicate to the extension becomes invalidated.
 * [dave] …
 * [devlin] Does firefox do that on update or reload?
 * [rob] Both
 * [devlin] Then it's the same in Chrome.
 * [rob] Idea. Could use the new sync storage at content script startup to retrieve a secret string and use that to exchange messages between the old script and the new script via CustomEvent between different content script contexts of the same extension.
 * [devlin] State is invalidated. APIs are disconnected.
 * [oliver] Would we ever say with browser.runtime.connect allows you to reconnect to the background?
 * [devlin] Could explore, mostly orthogonal.
 * [oliver] May change the desired design.
 * [devlin] Don't think so. If we say reload, we don't know when that will happen. We just know that it's the hope of a reload. Would still need another event to fire like onLoaded. At that point we could hypothetically reconnect or rehydrate. If we have that, then why not just pause on invalidated?
 * [oliver] See some value in UX. If we expect a reload, an extension can signal “waiting to reconnect” while total removal you wouldn't go into that UI flow.
 * [dave] Could Chrome inject content scripts?
 * [devlin] Hesitant to expand this proposal any further.
 *
 * [ben] FWIW, if this the invalidation of a content script and the current behavior cannot reconnect, the only thing it can realistically do is disconnect and clean itself up. Doesn't matter what the reason is.
 * [rob] Only concern I had for the reload is the handover, but there's a reasonable enough way to handle that.
 * [carlos] Oliver mentioned injecting UI into the page.
 * [rob] But you don't know when that will happen. Maybe wait 5 seconds and assume the update didn't happen after that.
 * [brandon] I'd be worried about trying to rehydrate since the content script may have changed. Why would an extension keep state?
 * [rob] Some extensions keep tab specific state that they do not want to share with the web page. Right now extensions suppress extension updates to deal with that, but if their scripts lived on they could send data from one to another.
 * [rob] Any reason to keep the reason, if there are only two reasons left?
 * [devlin] Could see using it as a way to differentiate between totally cleaning up state or potential recovery.
 * [dave] Until a couple days ago, I thought disabled was literally disabled.
 * [jonathan] What are the reasons then?
 * [devlin] Unloaded and uninstalled
 * [oliver] Unloaded or unload?
 * [carlos] Unload, because it's uninstall
 * [devlin] Oliver can patch that in ;)
 * [dave] Would Chrome ever inject content scripts into existing tabs on installation?
 * [devlin] Challenge is around prioritization. Medium hard. Hesitant to expand API surfaces with weird toggles. While subjective, that falls into my definition.
 * [carlos] [Issue 617](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/617) talks about adding content scripts to a tab on installation.
 * [dave] Could maybe say you don't need to opt in
 * [simeon] Breaking change in Chrome.
 * [carlos] That was historically the hesitation.


### Pull request and issue triage


#### [PR 799](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/799): Add `browser.permissions.canAccess()` proposal

 * [carlos] Depends on whether we want to merge the concepts of different types of permissions: whether you can execute script on a page or have full host permissions. In the past there's been some discussion about aligning them. If we decide not to do that, then we don't simplify the proposal. So it depends on how we want to approach it.
 *
 * [rob] I think we can unify for simplicity.
 * [carlos] activeTab gives you fetch permission in Chrome, but not in Firefox.
 * [rob] Since there's clearly a difference, I'd say should keep the distinction. What does Safari do with activeTab?
 * [kiara] Can execute script with active tab, but can't do fetch requests. But that seems like a bug
 * [carlos] Should we combine fetch access in this proposal? Is there a reason we would align – if you can make a fetch request from the page, does aligning them close any loopholes?
 * [rob] having scripting access implies fetch, but isn't necessarily the same.
 * [carlos] So you're saying we can't merge them.
 * [rob] Correct. We have three cases: distinction between content script declaration with match patterns and host permissions, activeTab permission in Firefox only gives Scripting access not fetch access, and the file: permission doesn't directly grant access a file: URL.
 * [carlos] So, we've concluded that we need to separate them. Two approaches. Get access to all tabs (scripting and fetch) or to specify what types of access you want.
 * [devlin] Behavior in Firefox and Safari is that they don't grant fetch access on activeTab. How do you handle other things that require host permissions, such as the cookies API?
 * [rob] The `cookies` API is gated on host permissions and not connected to `activeTab`.
 * [devlin] executeScript is also gated on host permission in the manifest. … In the manifest specification,
 *
 * [tomislav] There are a few more things that are gated on host permissions or activeTab.
 * [rob] Devlin is saying our activeTab is not the same as Chrome's activeTab.
 *
 * [tomislav] Currently activeTab is lost on refresh. Our desired implementation is that activeTab persists on the same domain.
 *
 * [devlin] Getting activeTab in Chrome gives you host permissions on that tab. It sounds like that's not the case in Firefox. That seems arbitrary.
 * [rob] I see how we could implement Chrome's approach, but it's a bit more access.
 * [tomislav] We don't claim you get host permissions with activeTab, we claim you can do a couple extra things when you have the activeTab permission.
 * [devlin] That makes it very difficult for this canAccess proposal. It's not related to host permissions or scripting, you'd have to ask about specific APIs.
 * [rob] The distinction for us is scripting.
 * [devlin] Tomislav was just saying that activeTab grants a couple other things.
 * [tomislav] Hard to know exactly what. I can look. … captureVisibleTab is gated.
 * [rob] What about Apple? How do you handle this?
 * [kiara] I would have thought our implementation was closer to what Devlin described, but it looks like we're closer to Firefox. I can do some additional digging.
 * [tomislav] `menus.onShown` event also gates some information on activeTab. Trying to identify examples that we've copied from Chrome
 * [devlin] If we don't want to block this PR on figuring out what activeTab does, the best option would be to return in the dictionary whether the permission was granted as part of activeTab. From there the developer can figure out what the capabilities are based on that grant.
 * [carlos] Main benefit is not having to figure that stuff out.
 * [devlin] Don't know how to do that without passing in a ton of info. We'd need to include all the different methods on scripting, user scripts, etc. The enum ends up 15+ long. Not uncountable, but more than I'd like.
 * [rob] Scripting and fetch are specific cases. The rest are presumably the same as the catch all.
 * [devlin] Don't think that's true. Just mentioned captureVisibleTab.
 * [carlos] Both APIs work different with host permissions here. Besides captureVisibleTab, are there any others that have different behavior based on host permissions vs. activeTab
 * [devlin] Cookies, webRequest, …
 * [carlos] Why are cookies different from fetch?
 * [rob] On the web, access to a subdomain of a cookie also implies access to domain cookies for superdomains, that is not the case for fetch.
 * [carlos] Could we start with a limited set and expand? How would you suggest approaching this querying or returning all types of access?
 * [devlin] Querying based on what you want to do.
 * [devlin] Seems like none of the browsers are consistent with each other. I'd bet none of the browser are internally consistent either. Short of having a per-API method way of querying, we'd at least need to separate cookies, scripting, webRequest, pageCapture, tab details, fetch, and possibly others.
 * [rob] This complicates things. Do we add a reason? API namespaces?
 * [devlin] Scripting is multiple namespaces, fetch is none.
 * [rob] Maybe we can identify a number of common things we all support and allow for the list to grow in the future?
 * [rob] Do we want a catch all default? If not listed, check the following?
 * [carlos] For this we have `permissions.contains`
 * [devlin] If not listed, try it and see what happens? I imagine that's the current default.
 * [carlos] yes, but some things can't be detected. I can update the PR to incorporate the discussed.
 * [rob] permission.contains doesn't account for enterprise policy, correct?
 * [carlos] That is why we want `runtime.canAccess()`.
 * [devlin] Probably not.
 * [rob] If we don't provide a default, extension dev can try the other reasons to approximate what they want without knowing if it matches the catch-all. Many things end up using the same logic in the end.


#### [PR 837](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/837): Proposal: close() Method for the sidePanel API

 * [oliver] Looks like there was some feedback. Harsh was a Google Summer of Code contributor. I can look at the feedback to see if we can proceed.
 * [devlin] API launched.
 * [oliver] I'll take an action item to clean this up.


#### [PR 676](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/676): Proposal: Public Suffix API

 * [rob] Public Suffix follow up. Looks like Devlin had a nit yesterday, the contributor updated it. Looks good to merge.
 * [oliver] It has been a while, do you know if the contributor is still interested in providing a patch?
 * [rob] Yes. I chatted with him today. I also heard interest from someone else in a Chromium patch. The relevant bugs are linked from the issue associated with the PR, https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/231.


#### [PR 370](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/370): Initial Firefox schemas, 2023Q1

 * [simeon] We were waiting on legal approvals from Mozilla.
 * [tomislav] Good to go. I can add a note.


#### [PR 791](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/791): Add trial_tokens key to specification

 * [oliver] I believe this was waiting on feedback from Mozilla.
 * [tomislav] Got feedback. Fine to merge.
 * [devlin] I hit the merge button.


#### [PR 822](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/822): Proposal: privacy.websites.thirdPartyCookiesAccessible

 * [rob] Has chrome shipped?
 * [devlin] Yes.
 * [rob] Let's merge then. I'll double check that I've reviewed.


#### [Issue 75](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/75): Standardize Firefox exportFunction() and cloneInto()

 * [rob] Tied to firefox, let's not standardize on this.
 * [carlos] Can close a duplicate for the dom.createPort and execute?
 * [rob] No, Firefox allows you to modify objects across worlds. Unlikely for other browsers to adopt this. Unless others are interested in allowing the definition of a function and exposing it another context and doing some magical wrapping? Could be polyfilled with createPort. I'll close this with a comment.


#### [PR 975](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/975): Update runtime.onInvalidated with unload reason and isolated world restriction

 * [carlos] This incorporates what we discussed earlier today.
 * [devlin] Should remove the other reasons.


#### [Issue 893](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/893): Web request tainting (Collusion/Lightbeam)

 * [thomas] Sounds useful. Tracking where a request came from based on originating script. Notes suggest this is possible, but I don't know how.
 * [jonathan] In Lightbeam we had to approximate it. Data wasn't directly available.
 * [tomislav] We expose similar things
 * [rob] URL classification flags.
 * [tomislav] We should get more details from Krzysztof. I'm generally in favor of exposing these kinds of things. Don't know the details here.
 * [rob] Concern is maintainability and stability. It's a commitment if we expose it.
 * [tomislav] The spirit is if we are already doing this, we can expose it.
 * [jonathan] Got a feeling that browsers don't always know the initiator of the request.
 * [thomas] It's shown in the developer tools network tab.
 * [jonathan] Expect there are cases where it's unclear. Say a service worker initiating the request.
 * [tomislav] When I said exposing, didn't mean to fix every case where it doesn't work 100%. Exposing what we have is better than not.
 * [rob] How much adoption would you expect for this API?
 * [jonathan] If we could have used it on a previous project, we would have.
 * [tomislav] Is there more general utility?
 * [jonathan] Ghostery. Anything that wants to visualize 3rd party loads. At least ~10 consumer? Could see a case for threat detection.
 * [rob] Does Safari support WebRequest?
 * [kaira] Parts.
 * [rob] Do you have request tainting information?
 * [kiara] Would have to look at it.
 * [devlin] Don't know how accurately we'd be able to do this in Chrome?
 * [tomislav] Would you be open to doing it on a best (some) effort basis?
 * [devlin] Maybe. How much detail would we include about the script?
 * [tomislav] Don't know. Would like clarification from Krzysztof.
 * [thomas] Full URL would be useful. The more information the better.
 * [jonathan] Need details to block or unblock things conditionally.
 * [devlin] Suspicion is that we'd never implement this from a prioritization POV unless you're okay with it not being accurate. Neutral. Not opposed, just not clear how important it is from a practicality point perspective.
 * [tomislav] I think we can be Positive on this.
 * [rob] For me it's hedging neutral. Don't know how reliable the current implementation is. Not clear what I'm saying yes to here.
 * [tomislav] Suggest checking in with Krzysztof to clarify. I recommend positive.
 * [rob] Since you feel so strongly about that, I'm not objecting.
 * [kiara] Neutral. Will follow up.


#### [Issue 732](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/732): Proposal: Add permanentNodeType property to BookmarkTreeNode

 * [devlin] Chrome has landed, other browsers were neutral and not implementing, can close.


#### [Issue 976](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/976): Add manifest key to allow devtools_page to run when inspecting service worker contexts

 * [oliver] I was looking at a case this morning. Right now we don't run DevTools in service workers. I assume that's in part because of .inspectedWindows property, which isn't relevant. This adds a way to declare you can inspect a service worker.
 * [dave] If your extension can message with developer tools, your background is like the old page?
 * [oliver] When devtools is open, we create a devtools page to coordinate communication with the devtools panel. If you inspect a service worker, you won't have access to any of the tools you normally have access to when debugging a page.
 * [rob] Why is this a SW issue? Why not workers in general? And worklets?
 * [oliver] Fair point, may not be specific to SW. Main case I was looking at was SW.
 * [tomislav]
 * [oliver] inspectedWindow.eval may work.
 * [tomislav] This is something developers would need to account for anyway. Does it need to be handled in the manifest?
 * [oliver] Problem is we don't spawn the devtools page for a worker.
 * [tomislav] The main purpose is to bring up a panel, right?
 * [oliver] Correct.
 * [tomislav] Can see the utility. Supportive.
 * [rob] Supportive.
 * [kiara] Supportive.


#### [Issue 461](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/461) Proposal: webRequest worklets

 * [devlin] Good to close?
 * [rob] Everyone's opposed, sounds good.


#### [PR 942](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/942): Proposal: i18n.getAvailableLanguages()

 * [carlos] Some opposition from oliver in the past. Added a new comment.
 * [oliver] I think you convinced me. Let me double check.
 * [carlos] How about Safari?
 * [kiara] I will do a review.


#### [Issue 338](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/338): Inconsistency: runtime.onMessage Promise return

 * [devlin] Implemented in Chrome, so shipped everywhere, we can close the issue now.


### Regular WECG meeting

This day ended with the regular WECG meeting. Its meeting minutes are available at https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/_minutes/2026-04-09-wecg.md
