# 2026 WECG London F2F, Public Notes, Apr 8

Wednesday, the second day of the three-day face-to-face meeting in London (announcement: [#951](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/951)). Agenda: https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/wiki/2026-London-F2F-Coordination


## Agenda

 * [Cross-world extension messaging](#cross-world-extension-messaging)
 * [Synchronous properties for content scripts](#synchronous-properties-for-content-scripts)
 * [ML/AI](#mlai)
 * [Embedding websites in extension pages](#embedding-websites-in-extension-pages)
 * [Synchronous properties for content scripts (continued)](#synchronous-properties-for-content-scripts-continued)
 * [Triage #1](#triage-1)
   * [Issue 557: Proposal: Extension Loading Priority](#issue-557-proposal-extension-loading-priority)
   * [Issue 12: request: allow to retrieve a frameID from an &lt;iframe> element](#issue-12-request-allow-to-retrieve-a-frameid-from-an-iframe-element)
   * [PR 934: Add runtime.getDocumentId() proposal](#pr-934-add-runtimegetdocumentid-proposal)
   * [Issue 862: Proposal: Add sound to contentSettings.](#issue-862-proposal-add-sound-to-contentsettings)
   * [Issue 539: Proposal: RegisteredContentScript.tabIds and RegisteredContentScript.excludeTabIds properties to filter injection](#issue-539-proposal-registeredcontentscripttabids-and-registeredcontentscriptexcludetabids-properties-to-filter-injection)
   * [Issue 673: Use match\_origin\_as\_fallback behavior by default in scripting.executeScript](#issue-673-use-match_origin_as_fallback-behavior-by-default-in-scriptingexecutescript)
   * [Issue 878: Proposal: runtime.getVersion() method](#issue-878-proposal-runtimegetversion-method)
   * [Issue 319: Increase the maximum number of dynamic rules to 30,000](#issue-319-increase-the-maximum-number-of-dynamic-rules-to-30000)
   * [PR 676: Proposal: Public Suffix API](#pr-676-proposal-public-suffix-api)
   * [Issue 172: Proposal: runtime.isFirstInstalled](#issue-172-proposal-runtimeisfirstinstalled)
   * [Issue 785: Proposal: create \_generated\_service\_worker.js based on background.scripts](#issue-785-proposal-create-_generated_service_workerjs-based-on-backgroundscripts)
   * [Issue 189: Inconsistency: It must be available for iOS](#issue-189-inconsistency-it-must-be-available-for-ios)
   * [Issue 399: setUninstallURL length update](#issue-399-setuninstallurl-length-update)
   * [Issue 8: executeScript API may inject scripts in an unexpected target at runtime](#issue-8-executescript-api-may-inject-scripts-in-an-unexpected-target-at-runtime)
 * [Cross-browser extension mapping](#cross-browser-extension-mapping)


## Attendees

 * Devlin Cronin (Google Chrome)
 * Oliver Dunk (Google Chrome)
 * Patrick Kettner (Google Chrome)
 * Rob Wu (Mozilla)
 * Tomislav Jovanovic (Mozilla)
 * Kiara Rose (Apple)
 * Timothy Hatcher (Apple) (remote)
 * Carlos Jeurissen (Jeurissen Apps)
 * Ben Greenberg (Aglide)
 * Jonathan Kingston (DuckDuckGo)
 * Dave Vandyke (DuckDuckGo)
 * Simeon Vincent (Independent)
 * Benjamin Bruneau (1Password)
 * Brandon Lucier (1Password)
 * Dean Murphy (eyeo)
 * Mukul Pirohit (Microsoft)
 * Nitisha Rathi (Microsoft)
 * Jordan Spivack (Capital One)
 * Casey Garland (Capital One)
 * Thomas Greiner (eyeo)
 * Jan Biniok (Tampermonkey) (remote)
 * Maxim Topciu (AdGuard) (remote)
 * Andre Bandarra (Google Chrome) (ML/AI topic only)
 * David Johnson (Apple) (remote, cross-browser mapping topic only)


## Notes


### Cross-world extension messaging

 * (9:30)
 * Cross-world messaging
 * [PR 679](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/679): Proposal: dom.createPort()
 * [PR 678](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/678): Proposal: dom.execute()
 * [simeon] PRs created by Devlin. Status of these proposals?
 * [devlin] Overview: These two are different APIs in the `dom` namespace to allow content scripts to interact with the main world. Currently have to inject a `<script>` element to run in the main world, which has side effects and is visible. `dom.execute()` as proposed would enable a content script to inject in the main world, and `dom.createPort()` can be used to create a channel to facilitate messages.
 * [simeon] Does the message channel use extension messaging or web messaging primitives?
 * [devlin] … Not 100% sure synchronicity is required. I still need to work through the comments to determine whether or not it is based on the community's feedback.
 * [jonathan] Are these scripts files or functions?
 * [devlin] Functions.
 * [jonathan] Yesterday I asked about exposing data synchronously at the start in the main world, can this be used?
 * [devlin] That is a separate topic, and exposed to the content script only. However, the API proposed here can be combined with the content script feature to allow the main world to receive that configuration via the port.
 * [ben] But we would have a guarantee on who's on the other end of the message port.
 * [devlin] Anything running in the main world we can't make guarantees about. As the browser we can't differentiate between extension scripts and page scripts in the main world.
 * [ben] Use case is securely passing data.
 * [devlin] This aims to address that, but it requires that the developer properly handle that.
 * [dave] I think we need synchronous messaging or a way to pass parameters in at the start as Johnathan mentioned.
 * [devlin] Not sure synchronous communication would help in this case. I believe what Johnathan was mentioning was having parameters exposed to content scripts when they initially run. Here having synchronous communication doesn't fix that because the data still isn't exposed. Currently unsolved.
 * [?] If we had synchronous storage in the content script, that would become viable then, right?
 * [devlin] Yes.
 * [dave] Then why is synchronous messaging identified as required
 * [devlin] Not sure, wasn't able to fully catch up on notes.
 * [rob] An example is where an extension overrides methods in the page based on user preferences.
 * [devlin] Presumably you've injected a script that overrides those methods.
 * [rob] But if you want the user to dynamically configure whether it's replaced or not.
 * [devlin] Even if we had dom.execute and dom.createPort, you still couldn't do that. I'm worried that we're going too far in the direction of having content script immediately available parameters. That's a problem, but not the one we're trying to address right now. Even if you have the two methods I'm proposing, that doesn't address the problem. Not clear what synchronous execution enables that isn't possible.
 * [rob] If you make synchronous calls in the main world and want to coordinate with the isolated world, you can't.
 * [devlin] &lt;walking through a use case where you're overriding public methods in the main world> Why would you need it to go back and forth between the content script
 * [rob] If part of the impl lives in the content script and part lives in the main world, and the caller in the web page expects the result to be synchronous, the communication channel needs to be synchronous.
 * [dave] I recall a case where we needed to check each time whether we needed to override the functionality on every call.
 * [devlin] Why implement that in the isolated world rather than the main world?
 * [dave] Less trust that the main world is unmodified.
 * [devlin] Understandable, that's generally in line with advice that we've shared.
 * [johnathan] Main world script needs synchronous messaging that needs a polyfill from a giant data store in the background. Uncommon, but annoying when it comes up.
 * [devlin] Partial implementation in the main world makes sense as a justifying use case.
 * [johnathan] Obviously it's not preferred to have it be synchronous.
 * [devlin] In this case it seems justified, but it does lock us into that interaction pattern and gives us less flexibility as browsers. But unless content scripts run in parallel to the web page, I don't expect this to be a problem.
 * [rob] Right, and they already share the DOM.
 * [devlin] Exactly, other stuff would break.
 * [simeon] Is passing element references possible with `dom.createPort`?
 * [devlin] Should be possible with either of these methods.
 * [simeon] How in `dom.execute`?
 * [devlin] An element could be a reference. In that case we'd pass the value as an appropriate DOM element for the receiving context.
 * [simeon] Does that mean parameters are transferable?
 * [devlin] No, structured clone, except for element references.
 * [rob] And only when passed explicitly, and not when part of an object you're trying to clone.
 * [simeon] Sorry, missed it before. Does createPort rely on web messaging or extension?
 * [devlin] Something new. Synchronicity requirement and element handling require a different approach.
 * [tomislav] And DOM method cannot accept elements.
 * [rob] And prototypes cannot be relied upon (unless frozen) to prevent the web page from interfering with it. So it has to be an object with a null prototype and own methods (or a frozen prototype).
 * [thomas] I can imagine a use case where a port is forwarded to another extension, is this supported?
 * [devlin] Sure, you can pass a nonce. The content script is what's creating the port. If you want to expose that to other contexts, you can, but protecting that is up to you. You could just create a port, set a name, and pass that name in dom.execute.
 * [rob] Is the concern about opening the port, or forwarding/sharing it directly?
 * [thomas] Either would work. Either passing the port the extension creates or somehow authenticating the context.
 * [rob] Being able to share the port object directly sounds complicated. If we get it for free somehow, then happy to have it.


### Synchronous properties for content scripts

 * (10:00)
 * Related:
   * [Issue 284](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/284): Main world Content Script shared params
   * [PR 793](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/793): Add proposal: Synchronous data at startup
 * [jonathan] At a high level, a way for main world scripts to synchronously receive data from the background script.
 * [rob] Currently PR 793 needs additional iteration based on feedback. Flexible on the shape of the API.
 * [dave] Previously we addressed this by adding a script tag, if it runs early enough.
 * [simeon] Can you dynamically register a content script with a function?
 * [kiara] No.
 * [tomislav] How did the content script approach work?
 * [dave] You could add an arbitrary content script to the page. As Simeon said, not great for security, but it was useful.
 * [jonathan] What are the blockers on this PR?
 * [rob] Let's look at the PR.
 * [rob] This API is inspired by the storage area naming as something to start with. The methods to update the areas are async and the same methods for consistency. What's important for use cases that require synchronicity is getSync and getKeysSync.
 * [devlin] Don't know that I love that we're reusing the same storage area interface.
 * [simeon] As Rob said, this is to get started. We can change it.
 * [rob] Timothy has shared some feedback on the naming and behavior. If there's more feedback, I can integrate that in the next update.
 * [jonathan] I think with this design it would be abused as synchronous messaging.
 * [rob] Can't. Setting isn't synchronous, the processes won't block.
 * [dave] If you're trying to decide if a feature is enabled for a website or not, would you expose a big table or have multiple storage areas?
 * [rob] You could expose the domain as a key name. Do you have an alternative in mind? This is pretty generic.
 * [dave] If the user goes to `foo.com`, you can't quickly set the options for that page as the page is loading.
 * [rob] You can set it, but there's no guarantee it will be set at the time the page loads.
 * [dave] Worried the data won't be there for a given page.
 * [rob] I'm open to adding more data types (e.g. typed array).
 * [devlin] Yeah, I don't want shared memory to be directly accessible.
 * [jonathan] I can see how we could make this work for our use case. If anything, it might be overkill for us. We only wanted a value at initialization.
 * [rob] I've heard many times from extension devs that they don't want to do expensive initialization work.
 * [devlin] We can bikeshed on the schema in the PR. One of the higher level questions is whether we're okay with having the same storage exposed across all content script sites. One of the ancient (5 year old) proposals allowed you to configure different data for different hosts. You might have some pseudo-sensitive data or site specific data.
 * [rob] If you're willing to key by ETLD+1, I could see that.
 * [devlin] So when you call get in the content script it only retrieves it for the current origin. I can see that.
 * [rob] I'd be open to discussing if you're interested in that kind of partitioning.
 * [devlin] I don't know. I can see the potential advantage for privacy and security, but there are also complexity / memory concerns.
 * [rob] Right, a shared bucket would cut down on memory usage. In the proposal I have two separate storage areas, one that are available to background and content script, then there's another one that's only available to privileged extension contexts.
 * [dave] Only concern is being able to send a message depending on what the web page is – whether the feature should be enabled on a website. With this approach I'd have to set the config for all sites. I don't mind if it works. If I can store enough data.
 * [devlin] Proposal is 100k.
 * [dave] I think that's okay? But our config is pretty complex.
 * [devlin] I can see hitting that limit if you have a lot of per-site configuration.
 * [tomislav] Structured clone may be able to help if many objects are the same.
 * [benjamin] Is the quota shared between areas?
 * [rob] Per-area. In theory they can have different quotas, but starting with the same for simplicity.
 * [tomislav] Contradicting myself from a few minutes ago, I assume your config exists in a storage area, unless you're literally checking objects and de-duplicating references, structured clone won't help.
 * [thomas] Currently the expectation is that extensions will need to compress or prioritize data. There are many websites – extensions will need to choose which ones they focus on.
 * [devlin] Always. If there's one thing I've learned, it's that no matter how large you make it it can be filled.
 * [rob] Should we support TypedArrays?
 * [jordan] Is there a limitation on not being able to use regular storage here?
 * [rob] No permission to lift the quota.
 * [devlin] Unlimited storage does lift the quota for storage, but not this.
 * [jordan] Could we share the permission?
 * [rob] For storage, the limit is to prevent you from filling the disk. For this one it's for preventing the process from blowing up. Back to the initial question, should we support typed arrays?
 * [devlin] Should discuss later.
 * [jonathan] You mentioned origin bound: if that was present, would that change the quota?
 * [rob] Quotas would be lower.
 * [dave] Smaller quotas per origin would be pretty sweet.
 * [rob] Potential concern with the current proposal is the onChange event. If a receiver is only interested in one key, would be nice if it were possible to filter updates to a single key
 * [devlin] I'm supportive, but that sounds like a separate discussion.
 * [kiara] Sounds useful.
 * [thomas] Wondering about (?). Right now we store this in async storage. We'd either need to duplicate it in sync or migrate the data. Could be useful to flag keys in async storage to make them available in sync.
 * [rob] I wouldn't do that kind of magic. API is already complex without that kind of auto migration.
 *
 * note: This topic was revisited again during this week:
   * Later today at: Synchronous properties for content scripts (continued)
   * Tomorrow at: Synchronous data at startup


### ML/AI

 * (10:35)
 * [simeon] Broad topic. We don't currently have a good view of the ML/AI landscape. Andre, could you offer an introduction?
 * [andre] A few things. Computer abstraction APIs: WebAssembly, WebGPU, WebNN. Can be used for graphics, etc. but can also be used for ML use cases. Abstractions on top of the GPU or NPU (Neural processing unit) on some devices. Don't expect many devs to use these. Big challenge for these APIs on the web is that LLM models tend to be very big. Having each site download them aren't great for bandwidth, storage. Not as concerning use case for extensions due to having fewer installed. Classification models tend not to be that big. LLMs tend to be > 2 GB. To offer a better solution, we (Chrome) started exposing builtin APIs: general prompt API enabled in Chrome using Gemini Nano. Edge has something similar. Each browser can have its own API and the browser manages the model, reduces total consumption. Some challenges there are that prompt engineering can be inconsistent across models, which is why we came up with, for example, text summarization APIs. Proofreading, etc.
 * [andre] In terms of the agentic side of things, there are 2 main areas: work on the prompts API to get function calling (what enables LLMs to call tools on your computer). Not ready yet, but in the works. Other thing is quite different from what we've talked about so far: WebMCP. Not about developer integrating AI into their product, it's about a dev enabling an agent running in a browser or extension to call tools the site defines themselves. There is an imperative and declarative API. You give a registration that follows an input schema and the agent can call.
 * [simeon] Unclear to me what actors are involved in WebMCP. Can websites expose tools to other websites?
 * [andre] Not at this point.
 * [patrick] Not even their own tools?
 * [andre] We have an API to register tools. Listening for tool changes is not supported, but a requested feature.
   * “WebExtensions API to enumerate and invoke tools” https://github.com/webmachinelearning/webmcp/issues/74
 * [simeon] I saw a question about iframes exposing tools, but I'm not familiar. Do you have more context?
   * “Allow iframes to declare tools” https://github.com/webmachinelearning/webmcp/issues/57
 * [andre] Initially decided not to allow iframes to register tools. Gotten some feedback from developers that they'd like to register tools across that boundary.
 *
 * [andre] I think they recently changed the API so you're not just passing a name, you're passing an object.
 * [jonathan] Then third party scripts could still do the same thing.
 * [andre] Yes. That's why they're changing the API to not just register a name, but an object.
 * [timothy] I hope some consideration is given to privacy, where every ad on a page isn't registering tool calls. Could open up a big can of worms.
 * [andre] Big discussion about this in the repo. I encourage you to join in the discussions on [https://github.com/webmachinelearning/webmcp/](https://github.com/webmachinelearning/webmcp/issues/57)
 * [oliver] To come back to Simeon's question, I've heard interest from extension developers on both sides of the coin: exposing capabilities and consuming capabilities.
 * [andre] I think that from extension developers that have reached out, they have an extension that is or uses an agent, and they want to list and execute tools that have been registered on a web page.
 * [andre] Two things that can happen for exposing capabilities to extensions: listing and executing tools in an extension, otherwise extensions would need a specific API to do this. Debug extension that we're using now is a bit of a hack – uses a temporary namespaced method to list tools.
 * [oliver] Can you give a quick overview of current status across browsers?
 * [andre] Chrome has an implementation behind a flag. Edge has been involved in specification. I believe there have been some commits in Firefox.
 * [tomislav] I'm surprised about that; I thought that we had a negative standards-position, but I'm not sure about that.
 *
 * (Andre screenshares demo)
 * https://googlechromelabs.github.io/webmcp-tools/demos/webmcp-maze/
 * [andre] We have a webmcp-tools repo in GoogleChromeLabs on Github. The extension has a few things: a list of tools that are registered on the page. Tool description and name. At the bottom there's an affordance where you can manually invoke the tools with given parameters. Handy for when you're implementing a tool. In the middle we have a crude chat prompt.
 * [andre] Now that I've changed the page, I've dynamically registered more tools. The extension can talk to the agent, figure out which tools to use. &lt;demoed using a set of commands to the model to navigate a maze, written in human language, input via the [“WebMCP - Model Context Tool Inspector”](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/webmcp-model-context-tool/gbpdfapgefenggkahomfgkhfehlcenpd) Chrome extension to simulate an agent>
 * [andre] Interesting thing here is you can give the agent complex instructions to navigate the maze.
 * [mukul] So these models are always running on the server?
 * [andre] Right now we're using a cloud model, not on-device. Right now function calling isn't supported by the prompt API. Once it is, it can run completely on device.
 * [oliver] WebMCP is just a way to register tools, right?
 * [andre] Correct. That's why I was saying it was quite different from the other APIs I was talking about: it's just a way of declaring and invoking tools.
 * [dave] Could this also be used for screen readers and such?
 * [andre] Potentially. There was an interesting discussion in the group about reusing accessibility markup vs. adding new markup for WebMCP. Conclusion was that when you write instructions for agents, it's quite different from writing instructions for a human. Mixing the two can lead to poor outcomes on either side.
 * [mukul]
 * [andre] There was a discussion in the repo about which agent was requesting a tool.
 * [benjamin] Two questions. Do we have a plan on how we'd register these hooks from extensions? Two, say there's an extension that has secrets and wants to provide them to a WebMCP method on a site, is it possible to pipe them through without the agent know what those secrets are?
 * [andre] On the first one, we have an issue on the repo about that. I'd love for this group to help us understand how to navigate that. On the second, whatever the agent does is just parameters to the tool. There's no way to mask a password.
 * [simeon] In that case it sounds like the way an extension would want to do that is receive a call and use it's own content script to perform the injection.
 * [timothy] This looks similar to `externally_connectable`, a schema to expose messages to pass.
 * [andre] Technically I believe you could pollyfill WebMCP with an extension today using a content script.
 * [thomas] Is there any way for an extension to override a tool from a website?
 * [andre] Are you saying as an extension you want to modify the tool registry?
 * [thomas] Right, you said we can't currently list tools.
 * [benjamin] What parameters are passed to WebMCP?
 * [andre] Looking at WebMCP Early Preview Program doc
   * JS API: Example: `navigator.modelContext.registerTool()` method taking object with `name` and `description strings`, `inputSchema` schema object and an `execute` function property. Schema describing the parameters, and a function that processes the input and returns the result.
   * Declarative in HTML: example with toolname, tooldescription attributes on `<form>`, toolparamdescription on `<select>` element
 * [andre] If you add a toolname and a tooldescription to a form, browser will turn that into a tool registration. API for this is straightforward.
 * [timothy] When I see things like toolname and tooldescription, I see how accessibility seems like it might be a good fit given the extensive aria namespace of annotations on the web. Seems like they could be decent fallbacks if you already have ARIA labels on everything.
 * [andre] I think it might be in part a naming issue. These are instructions for the LLM on how to use these fields.
 * [timothy] Going back to how you register a tool, who's responsible for enforcing the scheme? Is it automatically decoded before it's passed to the function? Is it up to the function to decode?
 * [andre] Don't know who's responsible for that right now. Don't know how the spec handles that.
 * [benjamin] Could you pass a callback function to the tool call?
 * [andre] No.
 *
 * [timothy] How does the tooldescription and other attributes that annotate the DOM work?
 * [andre] The browser looks at the markup and generates the tool registration for you.
 * [oliver] I believe it's turning the form where if you have 3 options, those options are used to populate the options in the tool registration. When the agent fills it out, it will pick one of those three options to submit the form.
 * [andre] Looking at the [french-bistro demo](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/webmcp-tools/blob/5bfe1fb6b2186056883d74fca1b76b9f85219f54/demos/french-bistro/README.md), the tool name is book_table_petit_bistro ([source code](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/webmcp-tools/blob/5bfe1fb6b2186056883d74fca1b76b9f85219f54/demos/french-bistro/index.html#L25)).
 * [timothy] Okay, so this only works with forms?
 * [andre] Correct.
 * [timothy] I think that was the missing piece for me at the moment.
 * [tomislav] Looks like it's a bridge to make forms accessible to agents.
 * [andre] We're seeing most devs use the JavaScript API, but the form support is pretty easy. I added support in comments on my own website in a couple lines.
 * [andre] The way agents work without this is taking screenshots, parsing the DOM, passing all of that to a model, asking it to figure out what button to click. Very fragile and slow. Not reliable, subject to hallucinations.
 * [timothy] That's also where the accessibility tree overlaps heavily. A more computer driven way to drive a web page. I can see both tool based declaration and the accessibility tree being the frontier way to have a computer drive and interact with a web page. As for the navigation tree of a site, I can see a sitemap being useful there. All that should work for free with an agent that can see the page.
 * [andre] I think most of them use the accessibility tree as much as they can.
 * [simeon] One of the challenges from the extension POV is that there are no standards on accessibility trees.
 * [timothy] For sure, not an API, an internal thing only the browser can see.
 * [timothy] Now that I have a better picture, I'm still struggling to see how it would make sense for an extension to expose something that the page could call. What use case would that have?
 * [andre] I was more thinking that an extension could expose something that the browser or another extension could call.
 * [timothy] That sounds like inner-extension messaging. I think it would only make sense to expose something to a system agent.
 * [patrick] The use case I've heard the most is crypto wallets. They want to expose functionality to a website for a website to interact with it's capabilities.
 * [timothy] How is that substantively different than externally_connectable? I see that it's more structured – there's a schema for WebMCP.
 * [patrick] I think they'd like it to be discoverable.
 * [tomislav] Difference is there could be several different wallets.
 * [patrick] A website would need to know the metamask ID in order to call into the extension. This would allow it to announce its capabilities.
 * [rob] Might be premature to define an extension API for this. If an extension wants to provide this functionality, they could use a content script to expose APIs in the main world. A more mature example of non-MCP is password managers overriding `navigator.credentials` to integrate there. These extensions currently use content scripts as well, without the browser offering dedicated extension APIs.
 * [timothy] Also scary that it looks like the page itself is exposing this functionality.
 * [patrick] Understood. Thinking of this similar to a website asking for your Apple Wallet credentials.
 * [timothy] Saying "extensions can do this as a content script” doesn't provide any trust level or trust layer for this. We should have trust in mind for things like this at the start. How do I control what tools get exposed to a website?
 * [patrick] It's the tools you've chosen to install.
 * [oliver] I think some of this is a browser UX concern. Just because something is exposed doesn't mean it has to be immediately exposed to the system agent.
 * [timothy] Totally. Similar to accessing the camera and related protections
 * [patrick] Would love to hear from extension vendors.
 * [casey] We're looking at stuff. There are page classification things we're interested in. Lighter weight models to get an impression of what's happening on the page.
 * [patrick] You mean asking the browser if something is a shopping page? Do you think that's more reliable than checking whatever database you have today?
 * [casey] Yes, that's the use case. Not necessarily more reliable, but it would be faster and more private than calling out.
 * [timothy] Interesting use case: a privacy preserving way to figure out what kind of site someone is on. Could be exposed more deeply in the manifest. Rather than just matching specific URLs, could be interested in the category “shopping”, and expose the extension on those sites. We should consider this more.
 * [simeon] I believe that many browser vendors are interested in this, but it is difficult to provide.
 * [oliver] For some categories of extensions, there are incentives to be honest. For others there are incentives not to be. If you're building a site where you want to run ads, it's preferable to say “I'm a bank, you should never load any extensions here.” Would be interesting if we can have a more uniform way for an extension to register its ability to act on a category of site.
 * [timothy] That's what I like about the schema approach. Challenge with `externally_connectable` today is that you have to know the (internal) format each extension uses to communicate. Being able to have a common schema makes them more universally usable. Going back to the question for extension devs in the room, I can imagine that the Capital One Shopping extension could expose “find deals” and that gets exposed to the system agent, those deals could get surfaced to the agent on the current page. But I don't see the need to expose “find deals” to the page. But I can see that being up to the extension to declare, like a bool that allows you to choose if you want to expose it to websites or categories.
 * [jordan] Right, two different things. Capabilities we want to expose to a system agent or browser agent and then as part of a dependency chain for verification, have a way to verify a user is logged in. Sometimes for sites we have partnerships with we may need to have some back and forth messaging. For some, we may not want them to know the extension is running.
 * [timothy] Right, you wouldn't want ad blockers to be detectable this way. Unless you have partnerships with a site, I can imagine they might be hostile to coupon extensions. I can also see how you might want to provide a way to get affiliateID. Could be back door tracking, but also the user's choice on whether they want to opt into those behaviors.
 * [thomas] As far as communication between extensions and websites, the key seems to be around exposing capabilities to the browser. With an ad blocker, for example, don't see the use case for exposing capabilities to a website, but can see the utility in exposing functionality to the browser. For example, allowing the user agent to disable ad blockers on a specific site. That's preferable to turning off the extension entirely.
 * [timothy] I was struggling to think of an example for ad blockers to expose themselves to the page, but an example might be, similar to Apple News, if you're subscribed, you can get Wall Street Journal and unlock their articles on the web or in the app. If the extension could expose a subscriber ID to get you past a paywall, ad blocking isn't necessary.
 * [tomislav] Acceptable Ads is something a website exposes to an ad blocker, right? That seems like a trusted relationship.
 * [thomas] Right. Point was if there are these kinds of needs, we could define standard contracts between websites and extensions.
 * [andre] For WebMCP, they're focused on defining a way to make tools available. If you have another way to do that, you don't need those features.
 * [benjamin] If we were going to provide a handle into our extension, we'd want to define a way to provide a secret without passing it to the model. The other part is we want to know we can trust whatever we're passing the secret to. If I can give you a capsule and you can only relay it so someone else can make use of it, great, but if we have to give you a string that could be stored in a `CLAUDE.md` file, not so great.
 * [timothy] Finding a way to capture data that needs to be passed around without being able to understand what that data is seems like it would be critical for autofill or other similar capabilities.
 * [benjamin] Or a world where you have an MCP method on a site that says “you can use this to authenticate on a site” and have a password manager that says “I have a method that will give you a secret for this context.” I can see that being a use case, but there are a number of trust issues. If we could have some guarantees about whether the site is who they say it is, ways to pass data without passing it in clear text, that would be ideal.
 * [andre] Sounds like you want some kind of resource. Tell the website that you can get the information you want from a resource over there.
 * [benjamin] Right, having something to broker the exchange.
 * [simeon] Time check. In the last 5 min, what do we want to cover?
 * [timothy] How do we want to expose this to extensions? Should we spec this out? Static manifest registration? Dynamic registration?.
 * [tomislav] Do we need to do anything special for extensions? Is it sufficient to just expose the API to extensions?
 * [timothy] Are these APIs exposed to service workers? That might be one of the bigger challenges.
 * [andre] I think they are, but I'd have to double check.
 * [timothy] Might make sense for us to expose our own way to register these dynamically or through the manifest. I would hate to only see these declared dynamically for discoverability reasons. By having them pre-declared, that makes it easier for us to notify the user about capabilities being exposed, get approval. Still need to solve for dynamic cases, but a declarative approach helps us here.
 *
 * [oliver] One thing I can see that's extension specific is the background context lifecycle. I think right now when you register a tool you pass a callback function. That wouldn't fit with the non-persistent extension lifecycle model. I can see declaring in the manifest and having an event fire in the background context.
 * [timothy] Good call out. Would be curious how that's solved on the web if they are exposed to service workers, which has the same issue.
 * [oliver] I would expect most of your website's functionality doesn't live in a website's service worker.
 * [andre] Only exposed on the window right now; not exposed to service workers.
 * [oliver] Standards positions?
 * [tomislav] Found where we're testing things, but don't know our position. Looking into it.
 * [timothy] Don't know for Apple. I think the additional things we'd need to consider with extensions, we'd want a way to say yes, expose this to the web, yes expose this to the system/browser, or both. There are probably 3 different levels of exposure. There are a lot of things that are unique to the extension side of things.
 * [oliver] Are you convinced that WebMCP is the right way to expose capabilities to the web?
 * [timothy] Currently seeing it as a next evolution to externally_connectable. How that's used, it's up to the web. Heard some convincing arguments in this meeting about leaving it up to the extension on deciding whether to expose to the browser, web and/or system.


### Embedding websites in extension pages

 * Related issues
   * [Issue 483](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/483): Proposal: API to embed pages in WebExtension bypassing CSP
   * [Issue 896](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/896): There is no HTTP Referer header for iframe in an extension page
   * Discussed before as “Embedding pages that don't want to be embedded” at https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/_minutes/2024-03-20-san-diego-meetup.md
 * [simeon] Yesterday Dave mentioned wanting to expose frames in the sidebar.
 * [dave] I was playing around with displaying content in a sidebar. I wanted to show a page, but I couldn't directly load it. I tried loading it in an iframe, but I got blocked by x-frame options. Wondering if there's a way I could do it directly. Not clearly why I was restricted. If a continent script sets the source of a frame, I think it bypasses normal CSP?
 * [devlin] Nope.
 * [dave] Not sure what it was. Saw something when experimenting. Not sure of the details.
 * [devlin] Talked about this general area a lot. There are lots of different hurdles you can hit when embedding cross-origin things. Want to allow embedding, but not access to cookies, etc. We have an ongoing thread with the security team. We'd like that work if you have host permissions. Trying to work through the details.
 * [dave] I think there's an example where we allow extensions to bypass CPS. Something like a youtube video in an iframe and I set the CSP of the soure…
 * [carlos] New restriction from YouTube which prevents embedded videos from working if the referrer header is absent.
 * [dave] I think the parent page had a CSP that only allowed frames from a youtube subdomain, and if i set the frame source to a non-youtube site from the main world it was blocked, but from a content script it was. Not clear why I could do it one way but not bypass frame ancestors another way.
 * [rob] See issue 896 I linked above, which is about YouTube.
 * [oliver] For the YouTube case, I'm conflicted. Would like embedding youtube to be easy because it's so common, but not sure there are other situations where a referrer is required.
 * [rob] Similar issues in PDF viewer, with fetch instead of iframe. Extension replicates a pdf load request, but does so from an extension context. Had to implement an ugly workaround to observe the network request, copy out the referrer, and re-set it when making the new request, because some servers only served PDFs when the correct referrer was set.
 * [devlin] In Chrome, we bypass renderer-initiated navigation for content scripts. Restating, we do bypass some CSP in the renderer from content scripts, possibly from the time when we did not apply any CSP to MV2 content scripts.
 * [dave] Not clear that's a bad thing.
 * [devlin] We should be more disciplined about how we bypass it. Doesn't currently bypass CSP handled by the browser process.
 * [tomislav] Ah, it's a renderer-only exception. That's an important clarification.
 * [dave] Should we be able to bypass frame ancestors?
 * [devlin] For cases where they have host permissions for the site, the plan of record is that they should be able to bypass frame-ancestors, x-frame options, and other similar restrictions.
 * [rob] Can we specify this more clearly? We've changed behavior a couple times. If we think we should bypass web behavior, we should write that down.
 * [devlin] Don't want to codify our current implementation.
 * [oliver] We have an internal proposal that isn't quite ready to be public. Once ready we can share it.
 * [simeon] I'm interested in collaborating on that, otherwise I'm going to write something new and I'd prefer not to ;)
 * [kiara] What's the rationale for the security team wanting this exception to be declared in the manifest
 * [devlin] Explicit opt-in
 * [rob] Would it make sense to introduce the primitive for extensions to declare their frame as a kind of transparent frame in the frame tree, so that for checks such as CSP frame ancestors/X-Frame-Options and checks, the browser implementation would skip the extension document and look at its parent.
 * [devlin] That's indeed part of that internal doc's discussion.
 * [rob] Is it related to the mimeHandlers API?
 * [devlin] Not related to the mime handler. Explicitly a non-goal to "hide" the fact that the frame is being embedded. Don't want to expose webview - everyone that's work with it feels that's undesirable and it's not a cross-browser concept. I believe in San Diego I believe we agreed that preventing sites from detecting embedding was a non-goal, where it's an explicit goal for webviews. Note that webview is an overloaded term. This is distinct from Android Webview
 * [rob] Are you only looking at frame relationships or also at the initiator? For the referrer example, if an iframe navigates to somewhere else, and ultimately ends up being the extension document, the referrer should be related to the initiator, not the unrelated parent frame.
 * [devlin] Not part of the proposal; specifically looking at frame-ancestors and x-frame options.
 * [oliver] Goal of the initial change isn't to prevent detection that you're embedded in an iframe, it's to address common security guidance of preventing embedding.
 * [tomislav] Cookie partitioning is out of scope?
 * [devlin] Yes. Addressed in other work.
 * [oliver] Behavior is complicated and there's documentation around it.
 * [dave] Not clear why we can't have an external page in the sidebar?
 * [tomislav] That's just one use case.
 * [devlin] Scraping is a common use case.
 * [tomislav] Embedding responses from multiple chatbots, video on a page.
 * [rob] Clarifying, scraping is a common use case. Over a decade ago there was an [experimental offscreenTabs API](https://www.chromium.org/developers/design-documents/extensions/proposed-changes/apis-under-development/offscreen-tabs/) (not the relatively recent offscreen document API); isn't that a better fit for the use case? Do you recall why it was removed?
 * [devlin] Didn't go anywhere, was for Cast.
 * [dave] Why would they need to embed an iframe? What about opening a new tab?
 * [devlin] That's user-visible.
 * [simeon] Seems like there's a clear action item here that we need to specify how CSP and other security rule relaxation should work for embedding pages in extension pages.
 * [oliver] Cookie partitioning works differently across browser. Not clear to me if that will complicate having a single specification for extensions.
 * [tomislav] At the basic level we can specify the desired default case: allowing cookie access as if it were a normal page load regardless of how it's actually implemented.
 * [rob] Do we have a detailed list of use cases we want to support? Would be helpful to help verify that whatever solution we come up with actually addresses our needs.
 * [oliver] Scraping is one. Embedding things in the side panel.
 * [tomislav] X-Frame options, frame-ancestor CSP, cookies and referrer headers are separate.
 * [jonathan] Sec-Fetch and related headers.
 * [carlos] Specifically Sec-Fetch-Dest (iframe/frame vs document)
 * [oliver] I believe there's also a new header that was proposed that could be a problem. I think it's in an early stage.
 * [rob] `window.top` and `location.ancestorOrigins` are out of scope.
 * [simeon] Other JS APIs that signal embedding?
 * [rob] Not necessarily a specific API, but several features are limited to top level documents. Don't necessarily want to change behaviors, specifying that the behavior is explicitly not changed would be nice. Permission policies
 * [jonathan] Permissions? If I'm embedding a page in my extension, do I have the ability to request geolocation?
 * [rob] That's permissions policies.
 * [rob] Somewhat concerned about having a large number of exceptions. There are many APIs that are affected by whether they're in an extension page or directly embedded. Trying to make it fully transparent for all use cases is prohibitively difficult.
 * [tomislav] Goal is to address common use cases.
 * [devlin] Proposal was for allowing the frame to be embedded, not preventing the frame from knowing it's embedded.
 * [rob] And only that, without guaranteeing other lifted restrictions, unless stated otherwise.
 * [oliver] We want to get away from extensions that have global DNR rules that disable security headers.
 * [dave] You can add a CSP header to make it more restrictive, but you can't really relax a header. Better for security if we allow them to relax frame ancestors and such.
 * [oliver] Potentially opens up an enforcement policy that disallows global relaxation.
 * [dave] Would like a reasonable option to make the CSP stricter, without the browser prohibiting CSP header modification.
 * [rob] There are also use cases to relax the CSP to allowlist specific resources.
   * [Issue 169](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/169): Blocking webRequest usecase - add, modify and remove CSP directives


### Synchronous properties for content scripts (continued)

 * (14:15)
 * [tomislav] While we were discussing the synchronous data initialization for content scripts, I was thinking that DNR already has rule conditions to match specific domains and URLs. And also that we have an effort to work on cosmetic rules. This led to the following idea: what if we use a similar mechanism to propagate data to documents? We can change headers with DNR header, some of which are already reflected in the document (User-Agent, lastModified, referrer). A hacky way that already exists is to set it in the extension and read it from the content script to have a per-domain configuration. This is suboptimal because it would break existing DOM APIs. But the same mechanism could also be used to implement a new extension API to have per-domain configurations.
 * [devlin] Are you envisioning supporting all DNR conditions? DNR is very verbose.
 * [dave] What if multiple rules match?
 * [tomislav] I would apply the same rule engine.
 * [devlin] DNR rule actions can be cumulative.
 * [devlin] Could get into storage collapsing
 * [rob] Using a header, we wouldn't need to add anything to the API, besides an accessor method in the content script to retrieve the extension-specific headers.
 * [tomislav] Main point was that code paths exist.
 * [devlin] Seems square peg round hole. We have conditions for DNR, but don't want all of them. Need to expose it to the isolated world, but not main world. Want to use a header, but not expose it. Etc. No longer seems like DNR is the right mechanism.
 * [tomislav] Was taking you on the journey of the thought process that got me here. Didn't mean to say DNR is the solution.
 * [rob] What I proposed before was configuring data globally. For site-specific content, may make sense to do it from the browser/parent process side. Piggy-backing on network requests for documents sounds like a potentially valuable approach.
 * [dave] Could see having something set for all sites, adding a new rule to restrict it on a subset of them, etc.
 * [casey] If we could do this without host permissions - if it provided a way for us to signal to the user that they could use our extension on a given domain, that would be great.
 * [tomislav] You'd need a content script on the page, so this doesn't address that need.
 * [rob] What I like about this proposal is that we get a lot for free, using somewhat stable built-in primitives that already exist.  We've heard feedback before from Timothy about the downsides to duplicating the functionality of the scripting and userScripts API namespace. There is also a feature request for cosmetic rules. DNR sounds like a general way extensions could this.
 * [tomislav] Priority system already exists for DNR rules.
 * [dave] In that case you're saying should I block, allow, etc. With this API, it would be modifying a shared object.
 * [tomislav] We support some modification of headers, right?
 * [devlin] Yes, some rules are cumulative.
 * [rob] There are implementation details – we need to be careful not to cache data. Also shouldn't let extensions use this to send lots of data with every request.
 * [tomislav] If they want lots of data, they can already use the sync access with your proposal. Isn't meant to replace that. If we want both, we can be very restrictive with this approach.
 * [rob] Also, keep in mind that DNR will not magically match every document; it works for http(s) requests, but not `about:blank`, or `blob:`, or `data:`-URLs, etc.
 * [devlin] I feel like we've wavered between a specific proposal – leverage DNR and its capabilities – to saying we don't have to use any of that. I think we're all on the same page about wanting to expose site-specific data, but if we're talking about using DNR we need to be concrete about what we're proposing. I'd be against something where caching could even come into the equation. If want something that matches rules to expose data, that's very general and uncontentious.
 * [tomislav] If we specified that this behaves like set header, would you still be opposed?
 * [devlin] Yes, because I don't want it to set a header.
 * [tomislav] A private header per extension?
 * [devlin] I wouldn't want to expose this as a header at all. (summary: headers have a lot of dependencies and interaction with other systems)
 * [tomislav] We already have all of those challenges with setting headers on DNR rules.
 * [devlin] Yes, because we're actually setting headers. It's desirable to have all of that functionality.
 * [rob] Extensions don't care how the data is getting pushed – they don't want headers. They just want to expose data.
 * [tomislav] Not just domain specific matching. tabID matching, other cases where an extension is disabled on a given site. Many of the use cases match. That's why I think it's useful to look through that lens, even if the end result doesn't 100% match.
 * [rob] Devlin, how do you feel about extensions implementing this kind of thing themselves using custom headers? For example, implementing cosmetic rules.
 * [devlin] Serves a different purpose than cosmetic rules
 * [rob] The rule engine and data propagation mechanisms already exist. If we offer a way for extensions to retrieve the header, they would be able to take action in the content based on matched rules.
 * [devlin] A lot of different layers here. Extensions want data on different sites. In the past we've talked about reusing rule conditions in other APIs. I'd like to get to the point with WebIDL that we can share types across APIs. I'm not as sure about whether the conditions in DNR are the right site, or whether we'd need/want to omit/add some. At the very high level, I'm on board. If we go too very low level and say DNR, no, I'm not. There's lot of reason to pull out rule conditions, but then we should talk about the right way to abstract these systems.
 * [rob] Thoughts from ad blockers? If there was a way for the browser to provide a matched rule in a content script, would you want that?
 * [thomas] At the least it would be better for performance. Exposing information would be necessary for us to forward that on to filter developers. Otherwise we'd have the same kind of problem where we need to figure out if our rule could have been matched.
 * [rob] Currently the proposal only works for documents. I imagine you also need to match subresources.
 * [thomas] Content rules can't currently match anything other than domain. They're less capable than URL filters. Anything that would work for filtering network requests would be a superset of what cosmetic filters need.
 * …
 * [dave] Overall sounds pretty nice having the rule API. Config we have at the moment is a huge JSON file with keys for features, lists of domains where a feature is enabled, etc.
 * [thomas] Sounds distinct from what Rob mentioned: hiding an element that got blocked. We'd refer to that as collapsing. We'd check if the frame had an error and hide it.
 * [dave] Rob was saying we could have a rule that matches like DNR but exposes config. You could then turn on one of your scriptlets.
 * [thomas] Right, use that as the targeting for your cosmetic filters.
 * [dave] Just mentioned collapsing because you asked about application to subrequests.
 * [rob] Would you want this because it's what you want or just better than current? I think we need some additional thought. Tomislav, your hack would work today, extension devs wanting to try this concept today without concern about exposing it publicly can shove the data in `document.lastModified`.


### Triage #1

Max 3 minutes per topic.


#### [Issue 557](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/557): Proposal: Extension Loading Priority

 * [devlin] Think we should close this; we can't guarantee the blocking of all network requests on extensions. Maybe with enterprise policies, but that is outside the scope of this group.
 * [rob] No objections to closing the issue. Only potential action item is a note that extensions cannot see/block all network requests, but that is a given.


#### [Issue 12](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/12): request: allow to retrieve a `frameID` from an `<iframe>` element

 * [tomislav] Already implemented by Firefox and Safari.
 * [rob] Chrome is currently at “follow-up: chrome”, is that changing to “supportive”?
 * [devlin] Still waiting for input from security folks. Implementation concern in Chrome that frame IDs are incremental numbers and may leak information.


#### [PR 934](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/934): Add `runtime.getDocumentId()` proposal

 * [rob] Already got approval from Timothy and Oliver, why isn't it merged yet?
 * [carlos] No review approval from Firefox yet.
 * [rob] There was no explicit review request, but it looks good to me.
 * [tomislav] Approved, will merge.


#### [Issue 862](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/862): Proposal: Add `sound` to `contentSettings`.

 * [simeon] If there are no browsers other than Chrome that support it, we should close it.
 * [oliver] Sgtm.


#### [Issue 539](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/539): Proposal: RegisteredContentScript.tabIds and RegisteredContentScript.excludeTabIds properties to filter injection

 * [devlin] I think that tabIds is not the right primitive for this; Rob's proposal ([PR 793](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/793)) on synchronous content script data initialization covers the use case.
 * [oliver] It is a recurring request to want to suppress content scripts / functionality on a specific tab; this can be supported through synchronous data initialization.
 * [rob] That does not cover tab specific data.
 * [devlin] Could be addressed in a different way without tab-specific content scripts.
 * [rob] With the current state of (approved) APIs, the closest to having tab-specific configuration is to link data to specific `documentId` in the background in synchronous storage ([PR 793](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/793)), and in the content script use `runtime.getDocumentId` ([PR 934](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/934)). This does not work for new frames or reloaded tabs.
 * [rob] What solution shapes are you willing to entertain? E.g. a way to get `tabId` synchronously? It is already available in `devtools.inspectedWindow.tabId` for example.
 * [devlin] I wouldn't like `tabId` parameters in storage APIs. I would be willing to entertain a rule based approach that Tomislav described, or an accessor for tabId in content scripts.


#### [Issue 673](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/673): Use `match_origin_as_fallback` behavior by default in `scripting.executeScript`

 * [devlin] Already implemented in Chrome and Firefox.
 * [kiara] I will verify whether we have implemented this, and close the issue if so.
 * [kiara] (follow-up), `match_origin_as_fallback` isn't the default. I'll file a WebKit bug


#### [Issue 878](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/878): Proposal: `runtime.getVersion()` method

 * [tomislav] This has already landed in Safari and Chrome, and towards landing in Firefox. Issue can be closed.


#### [Issue 319](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/319): Increase the maximum number of dynamic rules to 30,000

 * [devlin] Chrome and Safari already have a limit of 30000. What is the dynamic rule limit in Firefox?
 * [rob] Currently 5000, with open bug to increase at https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1894119. Ad blockers currently don't use DNR in Firefox, they use blocking webRequest.


#### [PR 676](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/676): Proposal: Public Suffix API

 * [rob] All browsers have already signed off, why is this not merged yet? Devlin was requested as reviewer last week, but Oliver already signed off.
 * [simeon] Devlin left some comments before.
 * [rob] I'll do another read and merge it. Are you okay with that Devlin?
 * [devlin] Feel free to ping me when it is ready.


#### [Issue 172](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/172): Proposal: `runtime.isFirstInstalled`

 * [devlin] Can use runtime.onInstalled.
 * [rob] One concern was missing the event loop; the synchronous data proposal would cover that with the persistent option.


#### [Issue 785](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/785): Proposal: create `_generated_service_worker.js` based on `background.scripts`

 * [oliver] At a previous meeting Devlin said that patches would be considered. Currently our support is declared neutral. Should this become supportive?
 * [devlin] Still neutral, willing to consider patches.


#### [Issue 189](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/189): Inconsistency: It must be available for iOS

 * [devlin] On the Chrome side we don't support extensions on iOS.
 * [rob] Firefox does not support extensions on iOS either. But Edge does support it.
 * [devlin] What should the value be?
 * [rob] IOS constant with value lowercase “ios” for consistency.
 * [simeon] MDN says “ios” at https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/runtime/PlatformOs
 * [patrick] I will write a comment and close the issue.


#### [Issue 399](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/399): setUninstallURL length update

 * [devlin] Chrome and Firefox implemented this; Safari does not support `setUninstallURL`. Can this be closed?
 * [kiara] Yes.
 * [carlos] The method exists, but does it enforce limits?
 * [kiara] We added the method as a dummy but don't do anything with it.


#### [Issue 8](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/8): executeScript API may inject scripts in an unexpected target at runtime

 * [rob] documentId solves this.
 * [kiara] Implemented in Safari; I'll update the label.
 * [rob] Firefox has an open bug on implementing `documentId` at https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1891478


### Cross-browser extension mapping

 * [david] We're interested in starting an open source mapping of extensions across browsers/stores. Help users re-discover extensions when users switch browsers.
 * [mukul] Also helps identify malicious extensions.
 * [nitisha] Also helps coordinate across browsers in the event that we identify a malicious item.
 * [carlos] As an extension developer, it would be useful to help direct people to the right store. For example, Edge users would prefer to use the Edge store rather than CWS. If there's a map, this could help facilitate transitions such as between their extensions and Chrome extensions.
 * [kiara] Wanted to get a sense of whether there's a desire among other browser vendors and developers for something like this. Firefox, Chrome, is this something you'd be interested in contributing to?
 * [casey] Why is this useful to Safari?
 * [kiara] Helping users migrating between browsers.
 * [dave] Could it help with copycat extensions?
 * [kiara] Possibly.
 * [rob] Could be useful to declare “I'm the only legitimate extension.”
 * [simeon] Could also be used to game the system if someone comes in and claims ownership on a new browser.
 * [jonathan] Too bad that there is no way to specify the domain as the extension origin.
   * [rob] Revisit this topic (of extension origin) tomorrow.
 * [david] Envisioned this working similar to the password manager resources repo, where there's open contributions but it's managed.
   * https://github.com/apple/password-manager-resources/tree/main
 * [simeon] My main concern is governance. How is the password manager resources project maintained?
 * [david] Initial expect there will be an initial large amount of contributions and things will drop off to a small long tail of updates.
 * [kiara] Think we need to talk though how we verify that a change is correct. That is probably the biggest thing to figure out.
 * [rob] Anyone recall from Ad Filtering Developer Summit where there was a project with rules and verification? That is also a curated collection of data.
 * [thomas] Are you talking about the Ghostery tracker database?
 * [rob] Yes! It was https://github.com/ghostery/trackerdb and more specifically the organizations at https://github.com/ghostery/trackerdb/tree/main/db/organizations
 * [jonathan] We have a thing called tracker radar that's very similar.
 * [devlin] Thoughts on how this would be secure?
 * [kiara] That would feed into how we verify the changes. On our end, we have more detailed information about our browser and extensions, but verify changes from external contributors could be difficult.
 * [dave] Could we do something like on Mastodon where you put something in your web page, provide the link to the tool, and the tool navigates to the page to perform the verification.
 * [simeon] That's the direction I was leaning: a well known entry that declares the extensions associated with that origin.
 * [devlin] How would that work?
 * [simeon] Extension and manifest both reference each other.
 * [devlin] So now each browser has to verify the extension for every other browser?
 * (...)
 * [devlin] I think we all know there are challenges with copycats and clones. We'd need a system that verifies that all of these extensions are legitimate.
 * [david] Ideally if we have a centralized place where we have all these mappings, we can work together to keep it all up to date and in check.
 * [jonatahn] Ostensibly you'd only need to perform that check a given points in time.
 * [devlin] Maybe there's just too much hand waving right now, but right now I have a hard time seeing that this would be a tool we'd use to securely suggest extensions.
 *
 * [rob] A way to verify is to have all extensions of a publisher cross-reference each other (extension IDs in the manifest).
 * [devlin] If you always rely on a bidirectional mapping, you can have some level of confidence, but you could never do that with just one direction.
 * [rob] Right. That would be a question for a later point: if there is a dispute, how are these resolved?
 * [devlin] Can't see this being used in a trusted fashion in Chrome. If it's just a community resource, great. But not beyond that.
 * [rob] Would the Chrome Web Store be open to offering an API endpoint that returns all known mappings if extensions implement this convention of storing (bidirectional) extension IDs in their manifest.json file?
 * [devlin] Can't say, I don't work on that project.
 * [mukul] There are already endpoints from the CWS. Which is used by [chrome-stats.com](http://chrome-stats.com/) to offer mapping.
 * [mukul] Could we have more confidence in extensions where the developer has used a trader identification?
 * [devlin] I don't think so.
 * [oliver] We have some additional information checks in place if you identify as a trader.
 * [dave] I kind of like the idea of having the ID of other extensions in a manifest.
 * [rob] Would allow for easier verification across browsers, as the community could directly act on that information.
 * [johnathan] Do we have an idea of scale? Seems like an order of magnitude larger than the PSL. PSL itself is a relatively short list.
 * [mukul] CWS has around 200,000 entries.
 * [rob] PSL has approximately 16,000 (counting number of lines at https://publicsuffix.org/list/public_suffix_list.dat ). I think the order of scale is similar in the longer term, possibly much shorter in the short term.
 * [david] Don't know how many of these entries on CWS would have a mapping to content in other stores in the future. Benefit to most users will be in the neighborhood of 500.
 * [simeon] Where would this mapping live?
 * [kiara] As for where something like this should exist?
 * [rob] GitHub?
 * [simeon] Any particular organization?
 * [david] Apple hosts the password manager repo. We could investigate something like that.
 * [rob] Apple or Mozilla would be fine I think.
 * [kiara] We will work on getting it created.
 * [rob] What kind of information does an entry contain?
 * [kiara] For a given extension name, team identifier for Safari, CWS extension ID, Firefox add-on ID, etc.
 * [rob] Missing a timestamp and mark of verification.
 * [kiara] We were doing the verification. I imagine the schema would look a little different in an open source project.
 * [rob] Even if you verify yourself, the verification could become obsolete, e.g. when the CWS item is sold / transfers ownership.
 * [carlos] Possible mapping of a single Safari entry to multiple CWS entries?
 * [david] We had some consideration of this. Can share out details of the schema.
 * [simeon] Also worth noting that we can start with a purely community driven set of JSON files and graduate to some kind of automated verification process in the future.
 * [rob] If this were to be at `github.com/apple/<something>` is it possible to add non-Apple people as reviewers on the repo?
 * [david] I believe so, yes. Will look into this.
 * [rob] To make it easier to accept contributions, could we have a separate mark of verification? Say there's 1000 submissions, an individual may not have time to check them all. Could we merge them without verification?
 * [kiara] Hesitant about that.
 * [david] Would prefer to trust what we have merged.
 * [kiara] Curious to see what contributions look like in practice. What we currently have would cover a lot of popular extensions across browsers.
 * [david] If we hit the point of having a large number of submissions that need verification, that's when we look into automation.
 * [rob] Are you looking for extensions with a certain number of users?
 * [david] Was not thinking of limiting it. Whole point of having it be open source is that it's not just a top list.
